ERPNext documentation


Introduction 
Whether you have an accountant in your internal team OR you do it yourself OR you have chosen to outsource it, the financial accounting process is at the center of any business management system (aka an ERP system).
In ERPNext, accounting operations consists of 3 main transactions:
* Sales Invoice: The bills that you raise to your Customers for the products or services you provide.
* Purchase Invoice: Bills that your Suppliers give you for their products or services.
* Journal Entries: For accounting entries, like payments, credit and other types.
Accounting Entries 
Accounting Entries The concept of accounting is explained with an example given below: We will take a "Tea Stall" as a company and see how to book accounting entries for the business.
Mama (The Tea-stall owner) invests Rs. 25000 to start the business.  JE 
1. Investment 
Mama invested Rs. 25000 in Company, hoping to get some profit. In other words, company is liable to pay Rs. 25000 to Mama in the future. So, account "Mama" is a liability account and it is credited. Company's cash balance will be increased due to the investment. "Cash" is an asset to the company and it will be debited.
The company needs equipments (stove, teapot, cups, etc.) and raw materials (tea, sugar, milk, etc.) immediately. He decides to buy them from the nearest general store, "Super Bazaar" whose owner is a friend, so that he gets some credit. Equipments cost him Rs. 2800 and raw materials Rs. 2200. He pays Rs. 2000 out of the total cost which is Rs. 5000. This can be recorded in ERPNext using a Payment Entry.
 JE 

2. Assets 
Equipments are "Fixed Assets" (because they have a long life) and raw materials are "Current Assets" (since they are used for day-to-day business), of the company. So, "Equipments" and "Stock in Hand" accounts have been debited to increase the value. He pays 2000, so "Cash" account will be reduced by that amount, hence credited and he is liable to pay Rs. 3000 to "Super Bazaar" later, so Super Bazaar will be credited by Rs. 3000.
Mama (who takes care of all entries) decides to book sales at the end of every day, so that he can analyze daily sales. At the end of the very first day, the tea stall sells 325 cups of tea, which gives net sales of Rs. 1625. The owner happily books his first day sales.
 JE 

3. Income 
Income has been booked in "Sales of Tea" account which has been credited to increase the value and the same amount will be debited to "Cash" account. Lets say, to make 325 cups of tea, it costs Rs. 800, so "Stock in Hand" will be reduced (Cr) by Rs. 800 and expense will be booked in "Cost of goods sold" account by same amount.
At the end of the month, the company paid the rent amount of stall (Rs. 5000) and salary of one employee (Rs. 8000), who joined from the very first day.
 JE 

4. Booking Profit 
As month progress, company purchased more raw materials for the business. After a month he books profit to balance the "Balance Sheet" and "Profit and Loss Statements" statements. Profit belongs to Mama and not the company hence its a liability for the company (it has to pay it to Mama). When the Balance Sheet is not balanced i.e. Debit is not equal to Credit, the profit has not yet been booked. To book profit, the profit and loss accounts have to be reset. The profit/loss is transfered to the Liability account and the profit/loss statement starts fresh. This is done using a Period Closing Voucher.
Explanation: Company's net sales and expenses are Rs. 40000 and Rs. 20000 respectively. So, company made a profit of Rs. 20000. To make the profit booking entry, "Profit or Loss" account has been debited and "Capital Account" has been credited. Company's net cash balance is Rs. 44000 and there are some raw materials available worth Rs. 1000.
Payment Entry 
A Payment Entry is a record indicating that payment has been made for an invoice.
Payment Entry can be made against the following transactions.
* Sales Invoice
* Purchase Invoice
* Sales Order (Advance Payment)
* Purchase Order (Advance Payment)
* Expense Claim
* Internal Transfer
In ERPNext, there are two options through which User can capture the payment:
* Payment Entry (Default)
* Journal Entry
Here are diagrams to understand the flow:
In Sales:  Payment Sales 
In Purchase:  Payment Purchase 
To access the Payment Entry list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounts Receivable/Payable > Payment Entry
1. Prerequisites 
A Payment Entry can also be created directly then linked to an order/invoice later. Before creating and using Payment Entry, it is advised to create the following first:
1. Customer
2. Supplier
3. Bank Account
If you're following the Sales/Purchase Cycle, you'd need the following:
1. Sales Order (Advance Payment)
2. Purchase Order (Advance Payment)
3. Sales Invoice
4. Purchase Invoice
Set up:
1. Chart Of Accounts
2. Company (for default accounts)
2. How to create a Payment Entry 
On submitting a document against which Payment Entry can be made, you will find the Payment option under the Create button.
 Payment Entry from Sales Invoice 

1. Change the posting date.
2. The Payment Type will be set based on the transaction you're coming from. The types are 'Receive', 'Pay', and 'Internal Transfer'.
3. The Party Type, Party, Party Name will be fetched automatically.
4. The Account Paid To and Account Paid From will be fetched as set in the Company form.
5. The Amount Paid will be fetched from the Invoice.
6. Save and Submit.  Payment Entry from SO 
2.1 Creating a Payment Manually 
A Payment Entry created manually will have no order/invoice linked to it. Payments made this will be recorded in the Customer's/Supplier's account and can be reconciled later using the Payment Reconciliation Tool.
   1. Go to the Payment Entry list and click on New.
   2. Select the Party Type and the respective Customer/Supplier.
   3. Select the Bank Account/Cash Account Paid To and Paid From. Enter the Cheque Number and date if bank transfer.
   4. Enter the Amount Paid.
   5. Save and Submit.
3. Features 
3.1 Setting Mode of Payment 
Mode of Payment: Entering this helps classify Payment Entries based on the payment mode used. Modes of Payment can be Bank, Cash, Wire Transfer, etc.
Tip: In the Mode of Payment master, default Account can be set. This default payment Account will be fetched into Payment Entries.
3.2 Payment From/To 
 Payment Party 

   * Party Type: Whether Customer, Supplier, Employee, Shareholder, Student, or NGO Member.
   * Party: The specific party for which the Payment Entry is made.
   * Party Name: The name of the party, this is fetched automatically.
   * Company Bank Account: Your Company's Bank Account.
   * Party Bank Account: The Party's Bank Account.
   * Contact: If the Party is an organization, a Contact person can be stored here.
3.3 Accounts 
 Payment Accounts 

   * Party Balance: The overall amount receivable or payable from Customer or Supplier from Invoices set in the current Payment Entry. Paid amounts will be positive and if advance payments are made, they will be negative.
   * Account Paid From: The Account from which the amount will be deducted when Payment is submitted.
   * Account Paid To: The CoA account from which the amount will be added when Payment Entry is submitted.
   * Account Currency: The Currencies of these accounts will be fetched as set in the Account and cannot be edited here. To know about more about transactions in multiple currencies, visit this page.
   * Account Balance: The total amount balance from all the invoices of the selected accounts.
Paid Amount: The total amount paid for the current Payment Entry is shown in this field.
Note: When making Payment Entries, the default bank account will be fetched in the following order if set:
   * Company form
   * Mode of Payment default account
   * Customer/Supplier default bank account
   * Select manually in Payment Entry
3.4 Reference 
Fetching outstanding Invoices 
This can be used to make payments to multiple Sales Invoices using one Payment Entry. When creating a new Payment Entry, on clicking the Get Outstanding Invoices button or the Get Outstanding Orders button, all the outstanding Invoices and open Orders respectively will be fetched for the party. You need to enter the 'Paid Amount' to see this button. From here a date range and invoices to be fetched can be selected.
If the Party has not made full payment, enter the amount paid in the 'Allocated' field.
If creating Payment Entry for a Customer, the Payment Amount will be allocated against a Sales Invoice. On the same lines, when creating Payment Entry for a Supplier, Payment Amount will be allocated against a Purchase Invoice.
Payment References table 
   * Type: Whether the payment is being made against a Sales Order, Sales Invoice, or a Journal Entry.
   * Name: The particular transaction ID is fetched/selected here.
   * Total Amount: The total amount of one Invoice/Journal Entry in the row.
   * Outstanding: The amount to receive/to pay for this invoice.
   * Allocated: If the Paid Amount is less than the invoice amount only the paid amount will be allocated to the invoice(s) fetched in the Payment Entry. The payment may be made in parts, for example, if there are three invoices of amounts 20, 20, 20, the Paid Amount is 60 then this Paid Amount will be distributed equally. Payment Terms may also be involved.
 payment_entry_get_outstanding_buttons 

What is Unallocated Amount? 
When a Payment Entry is made in ERPNext and the Paid Amount is more than the total invoice amount, it is stored in the Customer's/Supplier's account. This amount is hence currently 'Unallocated'. Unallocated amount can be used against future invoices.
For example, you create a Sales Invoice totaling 1,000 and the Customer paid 1,500. When another invoice is created for this Customer in the future for 1,000 again, the previously paid 500 can be used.
3.5 Deductions or Loss 
When a Payment Entry is created against an invoice, there could be some difference in the actual Paid Amount and the invoice outstanding amount. This difference could be due to rounding errors or changes in the currency exchange rate. You can set an Account here where this difference amount will be booked.
The loss/deductions can be written off. Let's see an example here where the paid amount is 25 but the allocated amount is 30 since 30 is the amount to be collected as per the invoice. The 'Difference Amount' will be 5 in this case. This difference amount can occur due to discounts or Currency Exchange. The Difference Amount needs to be 0 in order to submit the Payment Entry. This can be adjusted using the Make Difference Entry button. The amount will be adjusted in the Write Off account.
 Writing Off 

3.6 Write Off 
Write off happens when the paid amount is less than the allocated amount. I.e. the remaining amount is considered as lost in miscellaneous charges or that amount isn't going to be paid. This is considered as loss.
3.5 After Submitting 
Save and Submit Payment Entry. On submission, outstanding will be updated in the Invoices.
 Invoice Status Updated To Paid 

If payment entry was created against Sales Order or Purchase Order, the field 'Advance Paid' will be updated in them. When creating Invoice against those transactions, Payment Entry will be auto-updated in that Invoice so that you can allocate invoice amount against advance payment entry.
For incoming payment, the accounts posting will be done as follows.
   * Debit: Bank or Cash Account
   * Credit: Customer (Debtor)
For outgoing payment:
   * Debit: Supplier (Creditor)
   * Credit: Bank or Cash Account
4. Other cases 
4.1 Multi Currency Payment Entry 
If you want to maintain a receivable/payable account in foreign currency, then create accounts with foreign currency (different from Company currency) and link it in the party account. For example:
 Non-standard Currency in Receivable in Customer 

ERPNext allows you maintain accounts and invoicing in multiple currency. If an invoice is made in the party currency, Currency Exchange Rate between the Company's base currency and party currency is also entered in the invoice.
Note: A separate Debtor/Creditor account needs to be created and selected in the Sales Invoice/Order for currency exchange to work correctly. For example, if the Customer is from the US, create a receivable account called 'Debtors US'.
When creating Payment Entry against that invoice, the current exchange rate will be fetched, but you can set the Currency Exchange Rate at the time of payment to match your records.
Click on the Set Exchange Gain/Loss button to automatically add a row to write off the difference amount.
 Exchange Rate in Payment Entry 

Since Currency Exchange Rate fluctuates all the time, it can lead to a difference in the payment amount against invoice total. This difference amount can be booked in the Currency Exchange Gain/Loss Amount.
 Exchange Gain Loss Ledger 

Payments can also be made independent of invoices by creating a new Payment Entry.
To know more about managing transactions in multiple currencies visit this page.
4.2 Internal Transfer 
Internal Transfer is used in cases where the money is transferred between the same Company's accounts. For example, if a customer from the US using PayPal, transferring money from PayPal to a bank account can be considered as Internal Transfer.
Following internal transfers can be managed from the Payment Entry.
   1. Bank - Cash
   2. Bank - Bank
   3. Cash - Cash
   4. Cash - Bank
 Internal Transfer via Payment Entry 

4.3 Managing Different Payment Scenarios 
For an unpaid invoice, outstanding amount = grand total. When creating Payment Entries, the value in the outstanding amount will reduce.
In most cases, apart from retail sales, billing and payments are separate activities. There are several combinations in which these payments are done. These cases apply to both Sales and Purchases.
   * They can be upfront (100% in advance).
   * Post shipment. Either on delivery or within a few days of delivery.
   * Part in advance and part on or post delivery.
   * Payments can be made together for a bunch of invoices.
   * Advances can be given together for a bunch of invoices (and can be split across invoices).
ERPNext allows you to manage all these scenarios. All accounting entries (GL Entry) can be made against a Sales Invoice, Purchase Invoice or Payment Entry of advance payment (in special cases, an invoice can be made via a Sales Invoice too).
The total outstanding amount against an invoice is the sum of all the accounting entries that are made “against” (or are linked to) that invoice. This way you can combine or split payments in Payment Entry to manage the scenarios.
4.4 Difference between Payment Entry and Journal Entry 
   1. Using Journal Entry requires an understanding of which Account will get Debited or Credited. In the Payment Entry, it is managed in the backend, hence simpler for the User.
   2. Payment Entry is more efficient in managing payments in foreign currencies.
   3. Cheques can be printed from Payment Entries using the Cheque Print Format.
   4. Journal Entry can still be used for:
   * Updating opening balance in Accounts.
   * Fixed Asset Depreciation entry.
   * For adjusting Credit Note against Sales Invoice and Debit Note against Purchase Invoice, in case there is no payment happening at all.
4.5 Payments Using Journal Entry 
To make payment using Journal Entry follow these steps:
   1. Activate Payment via Journal Entry. Go to Accounting > Accounting Masters > Accounts Settings, check the box 'Make Payment via Journal Entry'.  Enable Payment Entry via Journal ENtry 
   2. On submitting a document against which Journal Entry can be made, you will find the Payment under the Create button.
   3. Save and submit the journal entry to record the payment against the invoice
Advance Payment Entry 
Payment done by the Customer/Supplier before the invoice is sent is an Advance Payment.
Generally, advance payment is done in the case of high value deals. Consider a Customer- Jane D'souza placing an order for a luxury furniture item costing ₹24,000 She is asked to give some advance before the furniture house begins work on her order. She gives them ₹10,000 in cash.
In ERPNext, advance payment entry is created using Payment Entry. If there exist a Sales Order, you can directly create a Payment Entry for the advance amount. Or else, you can also create a standalone Payment Entry for the Customer. Same way, you can also create advance Payment Entry for Supplier, via Purchase Order.
 Payment Entry From Sales Order 

Note: If payment is not linked to an invoice, it is considered as an advance payment. The advance payments are reflected in the Accounts Receivable and Payable reports.
1. Prerequisites 
To create an advance payment entry, these need to be created first:
      * Party (Customer/ Supplier)
      * Payment Account (Bank or Cash account)
2. How to create Advance Payment Entry 
Once a Sales Order or Purchase Order is submitted, you will find an option to create a Payment against it. You can also create new Payment Entry and manually select values (like Party and payment account). Here are the steps to create Advance Payment against Sales Order.
      1. Go to Sales Order and click on Make > Payment Entry.
      2. Set/check the accounts.
      3. Save and Submit.
Any Payment Entry that is not linked to an invoice is considered as advance payment by the ERPNext system.
If the Customer has given $5,000 as cash advance, it will be recorded as a credit entry against the Customer's Receivable account. To balance it [as per the Double accounting system], $5000 is debited against the Company's cash account.
2.2 Allocating Advance Payment in Invoice 
When creating an invoice, you can check if there is an Advance Payment against that Party.
 Fetch Advance Payments in Sales Invoice 

On clicking Get Advance Received button, it will fetch the Advance Payment Entries found for that party. Once Advance Payment Entries are fetched, you can allocate the Amount of advance against this invoice. The allocation will reduce the Outstanding Amount for that invoice right-away.
Save and submit the Sales Invoice.


Freeze Accounting Entries 
To freeze accounting entries upto a certain date, follow below given steps.
Step 1: Go to: 
Accounting > Accounting Msters > Accounts Settings
Step 2: Set Date 
Set date in the Accounts Frozen Upto field.
 Books Closed Through 

Now, the system will not allow to make any accounting entries before set date. If at all someone tries creating entries, system will show error message as below.
 Frozen Date Error 

You can still allow user with certain role to create/edit entries within accounts frozen date. You can set that Role in the Account Settings itself.
Post Dated Cheque Entry 
Post Dated Cheque is a cheque dated on future date. Party generally give post dated cheque, as advance payment. This cheque would be cleared only when cheque date arrives.
In ERPNext, create Payment Entry for post dated cheque.
New Payment Entry 
To open new journal voucher go to
Explore > Accounting > Payment Entry > New
Set Posting Date 
Assuming your Cheque Date is 31st December, 2016 (or any future date). As a result, this posting in your bank ledger will appear on Posting Date updated.
 Posting Date in Payment Entry 

Note: Payment Entry Reference Date should equal to or less than Posting Date.
Step 3: Save and Submit 
After entering required details, Save and Submit the Payment Entry.
Adjusting Post Dated Cheque Entry 
You can adjust Post Dated Payment Entry against an invoice via Payment Reconciliation Tool.
When cheque is cleared, i.e. on actual date on the cheque, you can update its Clearance Date via Bank Reconciliation Tool.
In the Chart of Accounts, you might find value of this Payment Entry already reflecting against bank Account. You should check Bank Reconciliation Statement, a report in the account module to know difference of bank balance as per system, and actual balance in the bank's statement.


 Role Allowed To Close Books 

Bulk Payment Entry 
If you want to create a single payment entry adjusting against multiple invoices, follow the steps given below.
      1. Make a "New Payment Entry".
      2. Select a Party Type and Party. On selection of a Party, all the outstanding invoices will be fetched for that Customer/Supplier.
      3. Enter the Payment Amount.
      4. Allocate the amount against invoices/orders as needed.
      5. Save and Submit Payment Entry.
Demo of Bulk Payment Entry 
 Adjust Payment Entry Against Multiple Sales 

Difference Entry 
As per accounting standards, debit in a accounting entry must be equal to credit. If not, system does allow submission of accounting transaction, thereby stops ledger posting. In ERPNext, on saving accounting entry, system validates if debit and credit is tallying.
 Debit and Credit 

To have entry balanced, you should one more row, select another account, and update different amount in it. Or you can add difference amount in one of the Account's row itself.
On clicking 'Make Difference Entry' button, new Row will be added under Journal Entry Accounts table, with difference amount. You can edit that row to select appropriate Account.
 Difference ENtry 

On selecting account under new row, debit and credit an entry will be tallying, and you should be able to submit Journal Entry correctly.
Accounts Settings 
There are various account settings in ERPNext to restrict and configure actions in the Accounting module.
Transactions Settings 
 Transactions Settings 

1. Over Billing Allowance (%) 
The percentage by which you can overbill transactions. For example, if the order value is $100 for an Item and percentage here is set as 10% then you are allowed to bill for $110.
2. Role Allowed to Over Bill 
Users with this role are allowed to over bill above the allowance percentage.
3. Role allowed to bypass Credit Limit 
Select the role that is allowed to submit transactions that exceed credit limits set. The credit limit can be set in the Customer form.
4. Check Supplier Invoice Number Uniqueness 
When checked, Purchase Invoices with same 'Supplier Invoice No' will not be allowed. This is useful to avoid duplicate entries.
5. Unlink Payment on Cancellation of Invoice 
If checked, system will unlink the payment against the respective invoice. By default, if a Payment Entry is submitted, the linked invoice cannot be canceled until the Payment Entry is also canceled. On unlinking, you can now cancel and amend the invoices. But the payments not be linked and considered as advance payments.
6. Automatically Fetch Payment Terms from Order 
Enabling this will automatically fetch the Payment Terms from a Purchase/Sales Order to its linked Purchase/Sales Invoice.
7. Delete Accounting and Stock Ledger Entries on deletion of Transaction 
Enabling this will allow the deletion of linked General Ledger and Stock Ledger Entries on deleting invoices and receipts. This can be checked if you don't want to lose the document ID after cancelling the document. You can now cancel and delete the document to get the same document ID again.
8. Book Asset Depreciation Entry Automatically 
When checked, an automatic entry for an asset depreciation will be created based on the first date set. For example, yearly depreciation for an item will be scheduled for the next 3/4 years based on the Number of Depreciations Booked set in the Asset master. For more details, visit the Asset Depreciation page.
9. Unlink Advance Payment on Cancellation of Order 
Similar to the previous option, this unlinks any advance payments made against Purchase/Sales Orders.
10. Enable Common Party Accounting 
If checked, an adjustment Journal Entry will be posted automatically on creation of Sales/Purchase Invoices against common Customer & Supplier. For more details, visit Common Party Accounting
11. Create Ledger Entries for Change Amount 
If checked, for a Point of Sale invoice, the system will post ledger entries considering the change amount given.
12. Enable Discount Accounting 
If checked, Discount Accounts can be added in the Items table of Sales Invoices, which will allow you to account for Discounts applied on Items more efficiently. It also lets you add Default Discount Accounts for Items, which will be fetched automatically when the Item is added to a Sales Invoice.
Tax Settings 
 Tax Settings 

1. Determine Address Tax Category From 
Tax category can be set on Addresses. An address can be Shipping or Billing address. Set which addres to select when applying Tax Category.
2. Automatically Add Taxes and Charges from Item Tax Template 
Enabling this will populate the Taxes table in transactions if an Item Tax Template is set for an Item and that Item is selected in the transaction.
Period Closing Settings 
 Period Closing Settings 

1. Accounts Frozen Till Date 
Freeze accounting transactions up to specified date, nobody can make/modify entry except the specified Role.
2. Role Allowed to Set Frozen Accounts and Edit Frozen Entries 
Users with this Role are allowed to set frozen accounts and create/modify accounting entries against frozen accounts.
Deferred Accounting Settings 
 Deferred Accounting Settings 

1. Book Deferred Entries Based On 
Deferred revenue amount can be booked based on two criteria. The default option here is "Days". If "Days" is selected, the deferred revenue amount will be booked based on the number of days in each month and if "Months" is selected, then it will be booked based on number of months. For Eg: If "Days" is selected and $12000 revenue has to be deferred over a period of 12 months, then $986.30 will be for the month having 30 days and $1019.17 will be booked for the month having 31 days. If "Months" is selected, $1000 deferred revenue will booked each month irrespective of the number of days in a month.
2. Automatically Process Deferred Accounting Entry 
This setting is enabled by default. In case you don't want the deferred accounting entries to be posted automatically you can disable this setting. If this setting is disabled deferred accounting will have to be processed manually using Process Deferred Accounting
3. Book Deferred Entries Via Journal Entry 
By default Ledger Entries are posted directly to book deferred revenue against an invoice. In order to book this deferred amount posting via Journal Entry, this option can be enabled.
4. Submit Journal Entries 
This option is applicable only if deferred accounting entries are posted via Journal Entry. By default, the Journal Entries for deferred posting are kept in Draft state and a user has to verify those entries and submit them manually. If this option is enabled, Journal Entries will be automatically submitted without any user intervention. This option will only be displayed if Book Deferred Entries Via Journal Entry is checked.
Print Settings 
 Print Settings 

1. Show Inclusive Tax In Print 
The applied taxes will be shown in the print view.
2. Show Payment Schedule in Print 
The Payment Schedule table is visible on using Payment Terms. Enabling this will show this table in print view.
Currency Exchange Settings 
 Currency Exchange Settings 

1. Allow Stale Exchange Rates 
This should be unchecked if you want ERPNext to check the age of records fetched from Currency Exchange in foreign currency transactions. If it is unchecked, the exchange rate field will be read-only in documents.
Stale Days is the number of days to use when deciding if a Currency Exchange record is stale. This is valid when 'Allow Stale Rates' is disabled. So, if the Stale Days is set as 10, stale rates that are 10 days will be allowed. If Allow Stale Rates is enabled, there is no time limit on the age of stale rates.
If stale rates are enabled, the order of fetching is:
      * Latest rate from Currency Exchange form
      * If no Currency Exchange is found latest rate as per market is fetched automatically
If stale rates are disabled, the order of fetching is:
      * Latest rate from Currency Exchange form upto number of days set in 'Stale Days'
      * If no Currency Exchange is found Latest rate as per market is fetched automatically
Report Settings 
 Report Settings 

1. Use Custom Cash Flow Format 
You may choose to use Custom Cash Flow Formats to customize what the Cash Flow report looks like. To know more, visit this page.
Chart Of Accounts 
The Chart of Accounts is the blueprint of the accounts in your organization.
The overall structure of your Chart of Accounts is based on a system of double entry accounting that has become a standard all over the world to quantify how a company is doing financially.
Chart of Accounts is a tree view of the names of the Accounts (Ledgers and Groups) that a Company requires to manage its books of accounts. ERPNext sets up a simple chart of accounts for each Company you create, but you can modify it according to your needs and legal requirements.
For each company, Chart of Accounts signifies the way to classify the accounting entries, mostly based on statutory (tax, compliance to government regulations) requirements.
 CoA Tree 

The Chart of Accounts helps you to answer questions like:
      * What is your organization worth?
      * How much debt have you taken?
      * How much profit are you making (and hence paying tax)?
      * How much are you selling?
      * What is your expense break-up?
As someone managing a business, it is very valuable to see how well your business is doing.
Tip: If you can’t read a Balance Sheet it's a good opportunity to start learning about this. It will be worth the effort. You can also take the help of your accountant to set up your Chart of Accounts.
To access the Chart of Accounts list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounting Masters > Chart of Accounts
1. How to Create/Edit Accounts 
ERPNext comes with a standard set Chart of Accounts. Instead of creating/modifying, you can also use the Chart of Accounts Importer tool. Note that the existing Chart of Accounts will be overwritten when this tool is used.
      1. Go to the Chart of Accounts list.
Here you can open group accounts which contain other accounts. There are options to “Add Child” in an account, Edit or Delete the account.
 Chart of Accounts 
      2. The option to create a child account will only appear if you click on a Group (folder) type Account.
      3. Enter a name for the account.
      4. Enter a number for the account.
      5. Tick 'Is Group' if you want this to be a group account which can contain other accounts.
      6. Select the Account Type. Selecting this is important as some fields allow selecting only specific type of accounts.
      7. Change the currency if this account will be used for transactions with different currency. By default, it's the Company's currency. To know more, visit the Multi Currency Accounting page.
      8. Click on Create New.
Typically, you might want to create Accounts for:
         * Travel, salaries, telephone, etc. under Expenses.
         * Value Added Tax (VAT), Sales Tax, Equity, etc. under Current Liabilities.
         * Product Sales, Service Sales, etc. under Income.
         * Building, machinery, furniture, etc. under Fixed Assets.
 Chart of Accounts 

Tip: Accounts with different currencies are created when you receive or make payments to or from different currencies. For example if you are based in India and transact with USA, you may need to create accounts like 'Debtors US', 'Creditors US', etc.
Let us understand the main groups of the Chart of Accounts.
2. Account Types 
Account types are mainly classified as income, expense, asset, or liability.
2.1 Balance Sheet Accounts 
Balance Sheet accounts are 'Application of Funds (Assets)' and 'Sources of Funds (Liabilities)' that signifies the net-worth of your company at any given time. When you begin or end a financial period, all the Assets are equal to the Liabilities.
A note on Accounting: If you are new to accounting, you might be wondering, how can Assets be equal to Liabilities? That would mean the company has nothing of its own. That's correct! All the “investments” made in the company to buy assets (like land, furniture, machines) is made by the owners. The owners are a liability to the company since the profits belong to the owners.
If a company were to shut down, it would need to sell all the assets and pay back all the liabilities (including profits) to the owners, leaving itself with nothing.
All the accounts under Balance Sheet accounts represent an asset owned by the company like "Bank Account", "Land and Property", "Furniture" or a liability (funds that the company owes to others) like "Owners funds", "Debt" etc.
Two special accounts to note here are Accounts Receivable (money you have to collect from your Customers) and Accounts Payable (money you have to pay to your Suppliers) under Assets and Liabilities respectively.
2.2 Profit and Loss Accounts 
Profit and Loss is the group of 'Income' and 'Expense' accounts that represent your accounting transactions over a period.
Unlike Balance Sheet accounts, Profit and Loss accounts (or PL accounts) do not represent net worth (Assets), but rather represent the amount of money spent and collected in servicing customers during the period. Hence, at the beginning and end of your Fiscal Year, they become zero.
In ERPNext it is easy to keep track of Profit and Loss via the Profit and Loss chart.
 Profit and Loss Report 

Note that, on the first day of the year you have not made any profit or loss, but you still have assets, hence balance sheet accounts never become zero at the beginning or end of a period.
2.3 Groups and Ledgers 
There are two main kinds of Accounts in ERPNext - Group and Ledger. Groups can have sub-groups and ledgers within them, whereas ledgers are the leaf nodes of your chart and cannot contain more accounts in them.
Accounting Transactions can only be made against Ledger Accounts (not Groups)
Info: The term "Ledger" means a page in an accounting book where entries are made. There is usually one ledger for each account (like a Customer or a Supplier).
Note: An Account “Ledger” is also sometimes called as Account “Head”.
 Groups and Ledgers in CoA 

2.4 Other Account Types 
In ERPNext, you can also specify more information when you create a new Account, this is there to help you select that particular account in a scenario like 'Bank Account' or a 'Tax Account' and has no effect on the Chart itself.
Explanation of account types:
         * Accumulated Depreciation: To store the total accumulated depreciation information of the Company Assets. Accumulated depreciation appears on the balance sheet.
         * Asset Received But Not Billed: A temporary liability account which holds the value of Asset received but not billed yet.
         * Bank: The account type under which bank accounts will be created. There must be at least one group account of type "Bank" in the CoA.
         * Cash: The account type under which cash account will be created. There must be at least one group account of type "Cash" in the CoA.
         * Chargeable: Additional charges applied to Items can be stored in accounts of this type. For example, "Freight and Forwarding Charges".
         * Capital Work in Progress: Current charges when creating Fixed Assets are stored in CWIP accounts. For example, construction costs when constructing a building. In ERPNext Assets are booked against CWIP accounts when they are not yet being used.
         * Cost of Goods Sold: An account under this type is used to book the accumulated total of all costs incurred while manufacturing/purchasing a product or service, sold by a Company.
         * Depreciation: The expense account to book the depreciation of the fixed assets. This appears on the Income statement.
         * Equity: These type of accounts represent transactions with people that own the business, i.e. the shareholders/owners.
         * Expenses Included In Asset Valuation: The account to book the expenses (apart from the direct material costs of Assets) included in the landed cost of an Asset.
         * Expenses Included In Valuation: The account to book the expenses (apart from direct material costs) included in the landed cost of an item/product, used in Perpetual Inventory.
         * Fixed Asset: The account to maintain the costs of fixed assets.
         * Income Account: This type of accounts represents any source of income or revenue booked for the Company.
         * Payable: The account type represents the amount owed by a company to its creditors (Suppliers).
         * Receivable: The account type represents the amount owed to a company by its debtors (Customers).
         * Round Off: In many Invoices there can be some rounding off in the final amount. For accurate tracking, those amounts can be booked to accounts of this type.
         * Stock: The account group under which Warehouse accounts will be created.
         * Stock Adjustment: An expense account to book any adjustment entry of stock/inventory. Generally comes at the same level of Cost of Goods Sold.
         * Stock Received But Not Billed: A temporary liability account which holds the value of stock received but not billed yet and used in Perpetual Inventory.
         * Tax: All tax accounts like VAT, TDS, GST, etc. come under this type.
         * Temporary: A Temporary account is useful for balancing incomes, expenses and nullifying them when shifting to ERPNext mid-year with outstanding accounting entries.
Note: When making Payment Entries, the default bank account will be fetched in the following order if set:
         * Company form
         * Mode of Payment default account
         * Customer/Supplier default bank account
         * Select manually in Payment Entry
2.5 Financial statements 
Financial statements for your company are easily viewable in ERPNext. You can view financial statements such as Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss statement, and Cash flow statement.
An Example of various financial statement are given below:
         1. Cash Flow Report:
 Cash Flow 
         2. Profit and Loss Report:  Profit and Loss Report 
         3. Balance Sheet Report:
 Balance Sheet 
2.6 Account Number 
A standard Chart of Accounts is organized according to a numerical system. Each major category will begin with a certain number, and then the sub-categories within that major category will all begin with the same number. For example, if assets are classified by numbers starting with the digit 1000, then cash accounts might be labeled 1100, bank accounts might be labeled 1200, accounts receivable might be labeled 1300, and so on. A gap between account numbers is generally maintained for adding accounts in the future.
You can assign a number while creating an account from Chart of Accounts page. You can also edit a number from account record, by clicking Update Account Name / Number button. On updating account number, the system renames the account name automatically to embed the number in the account name.
 Account Number 

2.7 Adding accounts under child company 
By default a user cannot add accounts (ledgers) under child companies, they have to be added to the root level company, this is done in order to maintain the same COA structure for all the child companies under a parent company. If the user tries to add they will get a validation message as seen below
 COA Validation 

However, in some situations, users have to add accounts directly in child companies and it cannot be avoided, for this, the user can enable this setting in the Child Company master under which the account has to be added, once this is enabled the addition of accounts under child company will be allowed
 Allow account creation under child company 

Opening Balance in Accounts 
The opening balance is the balance that is brought forward at the beginning of an accounting period from the end of a previous accounting period or when starting out.
This also applies when starting a new Company and would like your offline balances to be updated in ERPNext.
1. Introduction 
If you are a new company, you will have minimal opening balances to be imported. However, if you are migrating from a legacy accounting system like Tally or a Fox Pro based software you will have considerable data to be imported as opening balance.
We recommend that you start using ERPNext for accounting from a new financial year, but you could start midway too. To set up your accounts, you will need the following for the “day” you start using accounting in ERPNext:
Assets 
            1. Stock assets (stock in hand).
            2. Fixed assets like furnitures, computers, etc.
            3. Accounts Receivables (AR) i.e. unpaid invoices which you have sent to your Customers.
            4. Current assets like bank balances, cash in hand, deposits, etc.
Liabilities 
            1. Capital accounts like your shareholder’s (or owner’s) capital
            2. Current liabilities like loans, salary payables etc
            3. Accounts Payables(AP) i.e. unpaid invoices which your suppliers have sent you
If you were using another accounting software before, you should close financial statements in that software first. The closing balance of the accounts should be updated as an opening balance in the ERPNext. Before starting to update opening balance, ensure that your Chart of Accounts has all the Accounts required.
Opening entries can be created using the Opening Invoice Creation Tool in ERPNext.
Opening entry is only for Balance Sheet accounts and not for Profit and Loss Accounts.
2. Opening Balance of Assets 
2.1 Fixed Assets
2.2 Stock Assets
2.3 Accounts Receivable
2.4 Current Assets
3. Opening Balance of Liabilities 
3.1 Capital Accounts
3.2 Current Liabilities
3.3 Accounts Payable
4. Verify the Opening Balance 
Once all assets and liabilities have been imported, the balance of Temporary Opening ledger should be zero.
Cost Center 
A Cost Center is a part of an organization where costs or income can be charged.
In ERPNext you can use the Cost Center as a Profit Center.
Your Chart of Accounts is mainly designed to provide reports to the government and tax authorities.
Most businesses have multiple activities like different product lines, market segments, areas of business, etc that share some common overheads. They should ideally have their own structure to report whether they are profitable or not. For this purpose, there is an alternate structure called the Chart of Cost Centers.
A Cost Center acts like an Accounting Dimension which helps you track costing based on particular areas.
The Cost Center can be set at these levels:
            * Company
            * Item
            * Order/Invoice
The Cost Center can be linked to the following transactions:
            1. Sales Invoice
            2. Purchase Invoice
            3. Journal Entry
            4. Payment Entry
            5. Delivery Note
And other transactions which can be used for budgeting. You can also use Cost Center for Budgeting.
1. Cost Center tree 
You can create a tree of Cost Centers to represent your business better. Each Income / Expense entry is also tagged against a Cost Center. If 'Allow Cost Center In Entry of Balance Sheet Account' is checked under Account Settings, the system will allow a User to tag entry in Balance Sheet Accounts against a Cost Center.
For example, if you have two types of sales:
            * Walk-in Sales
            * Online Sales
You may not have shipping expenses for your walk-in customers, and no shop- rent for your online customers. If you want to get the profitability of each of these separately, you should create the two as Cost Centers and mark all sales with either "Walk-in" or "Online" Cost Center. Mark all your purchases in the same way.
Thus when you do your analysis you get a better understanding as to which side of your business is doing better. Since ERPNext has an option to add multiple Companies, you can create Cost Centers for each Company and manage them separately.
To access the Chart of Cost Centers, go to:
Home > Accounting > Budget and Cost Center > Chart of Cost Centers
2. How to set up Chart of Cost Centers 
            1. Go to the Chart of Cost Centers.
            2. Add region-wise nodes.
            3. Add other nodes as per your needs.
Selecting a different Company will display the Cost Centers for that Company.
 Cost Center 

 Chart of Cost Centers 

Distributed Cost Center 
A Distributed Cost Center is a Cost Center in which multiple Cost Centers are tagged with an appropriate percentage.
If a business has a master Cost Center with dependent Cost Centers. In every master Cost Center transaction, it is difficult to update the budget, profit, and loss to each dependent Cost Center manually with the allocated percentage of the master Cost Center. This feature helps to automate the process of manual entry.
For example, In your business, If the Cost Center 'B' and 'C' depend on Cost Center 'A' by 20% and 80%. Then, you can mention 'A' as a Distributed Cost Center. It helps to reflect income, expense, and budget of 'A' in 'B' and 'C' with allocated percentages.
In ERPNext you can create Distributed Cost Center and use them in transactions and reports.
1. How to create a Distributed Cost Center 
            1. Go to the Cost Center list, click on New.
            2. Enter the Cost Center name.
            3. Select the parent Cost Center.
            4. Enable the checkbox, Enable Distributed Cost Center: On enabling this, the distributed Cost Center table will show. Here, select the Cost Centers and allocate the corresponding percentage.
            5. Once you are done click on Save.
 Distributed Cost Center 
The following reports will be automatically updated when Cost Center filter is added:
               * Accounting Reports
               * Financial Statements
               * Budget Variance
               * General Ledger
               * Profitability Analysis
               * Fiscal Year 
A Fiscal Year is used to record and report the transactions for the year.
It is also known as a financial year or a budget year. It is used for calculating financial statements in businesses and other organizations. The Fiscal Year may or may not be the same as a calendar year.
For tax purposes, companies can choose to be calendar-year taxpayers or fiscal-year taxpayers depending on the jurisdiction. In many jurisdictions, regulatory laws regarding accounting and taxation require such reports once per twelve months. However, it is not mandatory that the period should be a calendar year (that is, 1 January to 31 December).
A Fiscal Year usually starts at the beginning of a quarter, such as April 1, July 1 or October 1. However, most companies' Fiscal Year also coincides with the calendar year, which starts at January 1. For the most part, it is simpler and easier that way. For some organizations, there are advantages in starting the Fiscal Year at a different time.
For example, businesses that are seasonal might start their Fiscal Year on July 1 or October 1. A business that has most of its income in the fall and most of its expenses in the spring might also choose to start its Fiscal Year on October 1. That way, they know what their income will be for that year, and can adjust their expenses to maintain their desired profit margins.
To access the Fiscal Year list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Setup > Fiscal Year
1. How to set up Fiscal Year 
               1. Go to the Fiscal Year list.
               2. To set the Fiscal Year as default, click on the Set as Default button.
               3. In case you have multiple companies sharing the same Fiscal Year, you can add it as shown in the following screenshot:  Fiscal Year 
Note -
1.New Fiscal Year should be created each year, at the end of the current fiscal year. Creation of new Fiscal Year before its begining has been automated in ERPNext.
2.Three days prior to the end of the current Fiscal Year, system checks if new Fiscal Year for the incoming year is already created. If not, then system auto-creates new Fiscal Year.


Accounting Period 
An Accounting Period defines a time period in which financial statements are recorded.
In ERPNext, Accounting Period is a timeframe outside which selected submittable transactions (like Sales/Purchase Invoice, Stock Entry, Payroll Entry, Journal Entry etc) are not allowed to be created. In other words, the selected transactions are only allowed to be created within the defined Accounting Period.
Why is Accounting Period needed?
When transactions are submitted, they affect the ledgers and the reports which process the ledger data. This can cause issues when financial reports have to be generated for audit by authorities or for closing the accounting books for the financial year.
Here Accounting Period can be used to limit the time period within which transactions can be submitted to preserve the integrity of the corresponding reports.
1. How to create an Accounting Period 
1.1 What is the "Closed" option for the selected transactions used for? 
 Accounting Period Child Table 

The "Closed" option in the childtable for transaction doctypes is used to select which of them are to be restricted after the end of the Accounting Period.
Do note that if the Accounting Period ends and if any of the selected transactions in the child table don't have "Closed" checked, then they won't be restricted after the Accounting Period ends.
                  1. Enter a name for the Accounting Period.
                  2. Define a time frame by setting Start and End Dates.
                  3. Add or remove transactions from the table. Note that all transactions listed in the table with "Closed" option checked will be restricted after the accounting period ends.
                  4. Save and Submit.  Accounting Period 
If you try to submit a closed transaction after its Accounting Period ends, you will see a validation error preventing you from doing so.  Accounting Period 
Note: No role can submit transactions defined in the Accounting Period, even the Role set in 'Role Allowed to Set Frozen Accounts & Edit Frozen Entries' in Account Settings.


Finance Book 
A Finance Book is a book against which all the accounting entries are booked.
You can have multiple finance books. For example, one book for tax authorities and another for stockholders. This is useful if you have to report depreciation and other values in different ways based on regulatory requirements. You can also use this to post alternate balance sheets for your internal reporting.
In order to use Finance Books, you need to check Enable Finance Books under the Fixed Asset Defaults section of the Company master.

Finance Book is not a mandatory setup. But if you choose to create multiple Finance Books, then you can make entries against a specific Finance Book by selecting that book in Journal Entry. If a Finance Book field is blank in a Journal Entry that means the entry will be available in all finance books.
Many times, for fixed asset depreciation, a Company may use different depreciation methods (Straight Line / Written Down Value / Double Declining Balance) for different finance books. You can set up different depreciation schedules for each Finance Book. Then, automatic depreciations will booked against that Finance Book according to the schedule.
 Finance Book 

Accounting Dimensions 
Introduced in Version 12
Dimensional accounting means tagging each transaction with appropriate dimensions like Branch, Business Unit, etc. This allows you to maintain each segment separately, thereby limiting the overall maintenance on GL accounts and your Chart of Accounts remains pure.
Cost Center and Project are treated as dimensions by default in ERPNext. On setting a field in Accounting Dimension, that field will be added in transactions reports where applicable.
In ERPNext you can create configurable accounting dimensions and use them in transactions and reports.
To access the Accounting Dimension list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Settings > Accounting Dimensions
1. How to create Accounting Dimension in ERPNext. 
                     1. Go to the Accounting Dimension list and click on New.
                     2. Select the Reference Document which you want to use as a custom dimension. For example, if you select Department as Reference Document, the dimension will be based on Department.
                     3. Enter the name of the dimension (This name will appear in the transactions for which dimensions are created).
                     4. Inside the Dimension Defaults table you can mention company specific default dimensions as shown in the screenshot below. This dimension will be automatically fetched in the transaction against that specific company.
                     5. Check "Mandatory" checkbox if you want the dimension to be mandatory in the transactions.
 Creating Accounting Dimension 

2. Features 
As you create the dimension, custom fields will be created using a background job for that specific dimension. You can see them in Accounting Dimensions section inside the transactions which have an impact on Accounting entries (GL Entry).
2.1 Using dimensions in transactions 
To tag a transaction with a dimension you can select the specific dimension in Accounting Dimensions section as shown in the screenshot below.
 Accounting Dimension in Sales Invoice 

2.2 Filtering Reports based on dimensions 
You can also filter various financial reports like Profit and Loss Statement, Balance Sheet, General Ledger based on these dimensions.
 Accounting Dimension in Reports 

2.3 Making accounting dimensions mandatory for "Profit and Loss" and "Balance Sheet" Accounts 
Profit and Loss is the group of Income and Expense accounts that represent your accounting transactions over a period.
The Balance Sheet accounts are Application of Funds (Assets) and Sources of Funds (Liabilities) that signify the net-worth of your company at any given time.
By selecting the check boxes 'Mandatory for Profit and Loss Account' or 'Mandatory for Balance Sheet' you can configure your dimensions to be mandatory for 'Profit and Loss' and 'Balance Sheet Accounts'.
 Accounting Dimension Mandatory in Transaction 

2.4 Disabling accounting dimensions when no longer required 
You can also disable the dimensions if you don't require them anymore. The old transactions having accounting dimensions will remain intact.
 Disable Accounting Dimension 

Accounting Dimensions Filters 
Introduced in Version 13
In ERPNext, you can control the tagging of various accounting dimensions against a specific account. You can either allow or restrict certain accounting dimensions against an account using the accounting dimension filters
To access the Accounting Dimension Filter list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounting Dimension Filters
1. How to create an Accounting Dimension Filter in ERPNext. 
                     1. Go to the Accounting Dimension Filter list and click on New.
                     2. Select the Accounting Dimension on which restriction has to be applied.
                     3. Select "Allow" or "Restrict" in the Allow Or Restrict field based on the type of restriction you want to apply.
                     4. Add accounts on which restriction will be applied in the Accounts table. Optionally you can also check the "Is Mandatory" checkbox if the accounting dimension has to be made mandatory for any specific account.
                     5. Add dimension values in the Dimensions table that will be allowed or restricted for the mentioned accounts.
 Create accounting dimension filter 

2. Features 
2.1 Filtering accounting dimensions in transactions 
Based on the restrictions applied on the account, only allowed dimensions will be filtered and shown in the transactions.
 Accounting Dimension With Filters 

2.2 Validations for Invalid and Mandatory Dimensions 
In case any mandatory dimension is missing or a restricted dimension is tagged against any applicable account, the system won't allow submitting that transaction until the correct accounting dimension is selected.
 Invalid Dimension 
  Mandatory Dimension 


Bank 
In ERPNext, saving different banks lets you upload an excel sheet and map the transactions to the ledger. The transactions are created as Bank Transactions. These can then be used for reference and reports. This is done using Bank Reconciliation.
To access Bank, go to:
Home > Accounting > Bank Statement > Bank
 Bank 

1. How to create a Bank 
Creating a Bank is simple, go to the Bank list, click on New, and enter a name.
1.1 Configuring data import for a Bank 
                     1. Under 'Field in Bank Transaction' select the field to be updated in the 'Bank Statement Transaction Entry' form.
                     2. Under 'Column in Bank File', enter the column in the excel file exported from the bank.
On setting this up, Bank can be done smoothly.
Bank Account 
In ERPNext, Bank Accounts can be created for a Company as well as other parties like Customers, Suppliers etc. Doing this lets you record all the bank transactions correctly for accounting accuracy.
You can add Bank Accounts in ERPNext for Company. Supplier, Customer, or any other party with whom transactions are carried out. Then the Bank Account can be chosen in Payment Entries as a Mode of Payment.
To access Bank Account, go to:
Home > Accounting > Bank Statement > Bank Account
 Bank Account 

1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using Bank Account, it is advised to create the following first:
                     * Bank
2. How to create a Bank Account 
                     1. Enter an Account Name.
                     2. Link the General Ledger account set in 'Bank Accounts' in the Chart of Accounts.
                     3. Select a Bank.
                     4. Save.
2.1 Additional options when creating a Bank Account 
                     * Is the Default Account: Enabling this will use this as the default bank account for all journal transactions.
                     * Is Company Account: Enable if this Bank Account a Company account.
                     * An Account Type and Account Subtype can be set for further classification in reports etc.
3. Features 
3.1 Party Details 
                     * Party Type: If this is not a company account, set who this account belongs to. The available options are: Customer, Employee, Member, Shareholder, Student, and Supplier.
                     * Party: Select the specific Customer/Supplier, etc.
3.2 Account Details 
For reference, the following details about a Bank Account can be stored in ERPNext:
                     * IBAN
                     * Bank Account No
                     * Branch Code
                     * SWIFT number
3.3 Address and Contact 
                     * Address: A bank may have multiple in the same locality. The bank branch address can be set here.
                     * Contact: A Contact Person can be linked here. Banks usually provide a dedicated contact person for corporate accounts, you can add that person's contact here.
                     * Website: You can add the bank's website here.
3.4 Integration Details 
Last Integration Date: If your bank supports Plaid Integration, setting a date here will synchronize on the set date. This will create Bank Transactions entries.
Payment Terms Status Report 
Payment Terms Status Report 
Report to calculate status of Payment Terms based on the invoices created against that Sales Order. Invoice amount is split into the respective payment terms at runtime using FIFO method.   
Example: 
Consider a Sales Order with total value of 7000₹ and a payment terms of 50-50.   
If a Sales Invoice is made against that SO for 4900₹.   
Then, the report will split the invoice amount into payment terms in FIFO method and display the statuses as 'Completed' for the first 50% and 'Partly Paid' for the second 50%.   
Journal Entry Template 
A Journal Entry Template lets you set and select a predetermined list of accounts and options while making a Journal Entry.
To access the Journal Entry Template, go to:
Home > Accounting > General Ledger > Journal Entry Template
1. How to Create and use a Journal Entry Template: 
 Journal Entry Template 

                     1. Go to the Journal Entry Template List and click on New.
                     2. Add the following details:
                     * Template Title: This will be used to select the template from Journal Entry.
                     * Company: By default the company defined in Global Defaults is selected. You can select any another company too.
                     * Entry Type: You can select from the entry types available in Journal Entry here. Default value is Journal Entry.
                     * There are 3 special 'Entry Types' in this:
                     * Opening Entry: This will get all the accounts and load them into the "Accounting Entries" table. To learn more visit Opening Balance page.
                     * Bank Entry: This will get and load the default Bank Account if set.
                     * Cash Entry: This will get and load the default Cash Account if set.
                     * Is Opening: This will be autoset to 'Yes' if 'Opening Entry' is selected as Entry Type.
                     * Series: You can select from a list of naming series available to Journal Entry.
                     * Accounting Entries: Here you can select a list of accounts to add to the entry.
                     3. Save and go to Journal Entry and click on new.
                     4. In the 'From Template' field when you select the template, it will load the accounts and other options set in it. Please note it will clear the Accounting Entries table first, but you can add more accounts to the table apart from those fetched from the template.
 Creating Journal Entry From Template 



Dunning 
A document to be sent as a persistent demand for debt payment.
Dunning is a document to store and send as a persistent demand for debt payment against an unpaid Sales Invoice.
To access the Dunning list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Dunning
1. Prerequisites 
                     * Sales Invoice
A Dunning can only be created against an overdue Sales Invoice. * Dunning Type
A Dunning Type is used to pre-fill interest, fees and text blocks in a new Dunning.
2. How to create a Dunning 
A Dunning is created against a list of overdue scheduled payments. You can create a dunning in two different ways:
a) Create a new Dunning 
                     1. Go to the Dunning list and click on "Add Dunning".
                     2. Select a Customer and click "Fetch Overdue Payments". This will show a list of overdue Sales Invoices for this customer. Select the ones you would like to fetch into this Dunning and click on "Get Items".
b) Create a Dunning from an overdue Sales Invoice 
                     1. Go to the Sales Invoice list and open any overdue Sales Invoice.
                     2. Click on "Create > Dunning". This will fetch all overdue payments from the invoice's payment schedule table into a new Dunning.
If the Sales Invoice's Payment Schedule is to be split into multiple instalments, please make sure a Payment Terms Template is used to do so.
If the Payment Schedule is manually split into multiple rows, the Dunning will have to be manually resolved.
Fill the remaining fields 
                     1. Select a Dunning Type to fill interest, dunning fees and text blocks with predetermined values. Or you can set these values manually as well.
                     2. You can already set an income Account (for example, "Other interest and similar income") and Cost Center for the income generated from interest and dunning fees. These will be used once a Payment Entry is created from this Dunning.
                     3. Save and submit the Dunning before sending it to the Customer.
 Dunning example 

2.1 What is a Dunning Type 
Dunning Type stores default values for dunning fee, interest rate and text blocks to be included. For example, a Dunning Type "First Notice" will not have any fees, but Dunning Type "Second Notice" will have a dunning fee and interest charged on the outstanding amount.
 Dunning Type 

2.2 Statuses 
These are the statuses that are auto-assigned to Dunning.
                     * Draft: A draft is saved but yet to be submitted.
                     * Unresolved: The Dunning is unresolved when it is submitted but no payments have been received.
                     * Resolved: The Dunning is resolved when the outstanding payment has been received.
                     * Cancelled: A cancelled status is a cancelled Dunning document.
3. Payment 
When you receive a full payment, including interest and fees, please open the unresolved Dunning and click on "Create > Payment". This will create a Payment Entry against the outstanding scheduled payments and record the interest and fees as "Payment Deductions or Loss". The Payment Entry will automatically set the Dunning's status to resolved.
 Dunning Payment 



Payment Request 
A Payment Request is used to request payment from a Customer for a Sales Order or Invoice.
Payment Request is sent via email and will contain a link to a Payment Gateway if set up. You can create a payment request via a Sales Order or a Sales Invoice. A Payment Request can also be set up against a Purchase Order or a Purchase Invoice for internal records. Then, payments can be processed in bulk using a Payment Order.
To access Payment Request go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounts Receivable > Payment Request
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using Payment Request, it is advisable to create the following first:
                     1. Sales Invoice
                     2. Purchase Invoice
                     3. Sales Order
                     4. Purchase Order
2. How to create a Payment Request 
A Payment Request cannot be created manually, it is created from a Sales/Purchase Order or Invoice.
2.1 Creating Payment Request via Sales Order 
In a Sales Order, click on Create and then click on Payment to make an advance payment. To know more about advance payment, visit the Advance Payment Entry page.
 Payment Request From Sales Order 

2.2 Creating Payment Request via Sales Invoice 
In a Sales Invoice, click on Create and then click on Payment to make payment against the invoice.
 Payment Request From Sales Invoice 

Select appropriate Payment Gateway Account on Payment Request for accounts posting. Account head specified on payment gateway will be considered to create a Journal Entry.
Note: Invoice/Order currency and 'Payment Gateway Account' currency should be the same.
 Payment Request Details 

2.3 Notifying the Customer 
You can notify customer from Payment Request using Print Format. If the customer contact email is set, it will be fetched automatically. If not so you can set an email address in Payment Request.
 Payment Request Details 

2.4 Request Mail 
Here is an example request email. The URL is generated automatically if you've set up the respective payment integration. To know more about integrations, visit this page.
 Payment Request 

2.5 Payment Request without using any Gateway 
In case you don't want to use any integration or payment gateway and only want to send a notification, simply set the Bank Account. You'll have to compose the message accordingly with bank details. The party can then transfer the amount to the mentioned bank account.


Mode of Payment 
The Mode of Payment stores the medium through which payments are made or received.
To access the Mode of Payment list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Settings > Mode of Payment
1. How to create a Mode of Payment 
                     1. Go to the Mode of Payment list and click on New.
                     2. Enter a name for the Mode of Payment.
                     3. Set a type whether Cash, Bank, or General. This is useful for knowing the mode of payment used in Point Of Sales (PoS).
                     4. Set a default payment Account for all the companies.
                     5. Save.
 Mode of Payment 
Tip: Setting the default Account will this account fetched into Payment Entries.
 Mode of Payment 

Note: When making Payment Entries, the default bank account will be fetched in the following order if set:
                        * Company form
                        * Mode of Payment default account
                        * Customer/Supplier default bank account
                        * Select manually in Payment Entry
Payment Terms 
A Payment Term helps to set a schedule according to which payments will be made.
A Payment Term defines a specific payment slab. For example, 50% payment on shipping and 50% on delivery of the item. You can save your business's payment terms on ERPNext and include them in all documents in the sales/purchase cycle. ERPNext will make all the General Ledger entries accordingly.
In ERPNext, the Payment Terms form only defines portion percentages. The actual payment schedule can easily be applied using the Payment Terms Template.
You can use Payment Terms in the following documents:
                        * Sales Invoice
                        * Purchase Invoice
                        * Sales Order
                        * Purchase Order
                        * Quotation
To access Payment Term go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounting Masters > Payment Term
 Payment Terms 

1. How to create a Payment Term 
                        1. Go to the Payment Term list and click on New.
                        2. Enter a name for the Payment Term (eg: 50% post-shipment).
                        3. Enter the Invoice portion. If you enter 50, the portion will be 50 percent of the Invoice amount.
                        4. Select a Due Date type.
                        5. Under Credit Days enter the number of days after which the remaining amount has to be paid.
                        6. Save.
The fields are explained as follows:
                        * Payment Term Name: The name for this Payment Term.
                        * Due Date Based On: The basis by which the due date for the Payment Term is to be calculated. This is calculated X number of days from the posting date of the invoice/order. There are three options:
                        * Day(s) after invoice date: Due date should be calculated in days concerning the posting date of the invoice. For example, if 7 is entered on date 20th, the due date will be 27.
                        * Day(s) after the end of the invoice month: Due date should be calculated in days concerning the last day of the month in which the invoice was created. For example, if 7 is entered in the current month and the last day of the month is 30th, the due date will be the 7th of the next month.
                        * Month(s) after the end of the invoice month: Due date should be calculated in months concerning the last day of the month in which the invoice was created. For example, if 3 is entered on the 20th of January, the due date will be on 20th March.
                        * Invoice Portion: The portion of the total invoice amount for which this Payment Term should be applied. The value given will be regarded as percentage i.e 50 = 50% of the invoice/orders Grand Total
                        * Credit Days (optional): The number of days or month credit is allowed depending on the option chosen in the Due Date Based On the field. 0 means no credit allowed.
                        * Description: (optional) A brief description of the Payment Term.
1.1 Setting up Discount on Early Payments 
You can set up a discounted payment terms such that if payment is done within the specified period then some amount/percentage of the invoice value will be discounted. The following fields define the discount configuration:
                        * Discount Type: Default is Percentage. You can also change it to Amount.
                        * Discount: In terms of Percentage or Amount (eg. 10% or ₹ 5,000).
                        * Discount Validity Based On: This field acts similar to the Due Date Based On the field in the previous section.
                        * Discount Validity: The number of days or months the discount is valid with respect to the invoice date (eg. 10 days after the invoice date).
                        * NOTE: "Discount Validity Based on" and "Discount Validity" fields only show once the "discount" field is populated.
 Payment Terms with Discount 

You can now link the Payment Terms with an Invoice and on creating the payment against such invoice, the discount will be applied automatically.
1.2 Payment Terms in Converted Documents 
When converting or copying documents in the sales/purchase cycle, the attached Payment Term(s) will be copied. When creating a Sales Order from a Quotation, the Due Date in the Payment Terms will be according to the Quotation, this needs to be updated.
For ease of use, you can also set a Payment Terms Template and simply reselect it.
1.3 Adding Payment Terms To Documents 
Once you have composed the Payment Terms Template, you can use them in sales and purchase transactions. Based on the value defined for Payment Terms and transaction value, the payment schedule will be defined, with a Due Date for each payment slab.
 Payment Schedule 

Note: The Payment Schedule can be shown in the Print View using the Print Format Builder.


Payment Terms Template 
Payment Terms Template allow you to club multiple payment terms together and fetch in transactions.
After creation, the Payment Terms Table can be set to a specific Customer/Supplier. On selecting the Customer/Supplier in a transaction, the Payment Terms Template will be fetched automatically into the transaction.
For example:
If you receive payment in the slab of 30-70, then you can define Payment Term for each slab, i.e. 30% and 70%.
In the Payment Terms Template, you can select all the Payment Terms and define a template which can be easily applied in the sales and purchase transactions.
 Payment Terms Template 

1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using Payment Request, it is advisable to create the following first:
                        1. Payment Terms
2. How to create a Payment Terms Template 
A Payment Terms Template tells ERPNext how to populate the table in the 'Payment Terms Schedule' section of the sales/purchase document.
You should use it if you have a set of standard Payment Terms or for ease of use.
                        1. Go to the Payment Term Template list and click on New.
                        2. Enter a name for the template.
                        3. Add the created Payment Terms in the table rows.
                        4. Make sure that the total Invoice Portion adds up to 100.
                        5. Save.
Advance Payment Entry 
Payment done by the Customer/Supplier before the invoice is sent is an Advance Payment.
Generally, advance payment is done in the case of high value deals. Consider a Customer- Jane D'souza placing an order for a luxury furniture item costing ₹24,000 She is asked to give some advance before the furniture house begins work on her order. She gives them ₹10,000 in cash.
In ERPNext, advance payment entry is created using Payment Entry. If there exist a Sales Order, you can directly create a Payment Entry for the advance amount. Or else, you can also create a standalone Payment Entry for the Customer. Same way, you can also create advance Payment Entry for Supplier, via Purchase Order.
 Payment Entry From Sales Order 

Note: If payment is not linked to an invoice, it is considered as an advance payment. The advance payments are reflected in the Accounts Receivable and Payable reports.
1. Prerequisites 
To create an advance payment entry, these need to be created first:
                        * Party (Customer/ Supplier)
                        * Payment Account (Bank or Cash account)
2. How to create Advance Payment Entry 
Once a Sales Order or Purchase Order is submitted, you will find an option to create a Payment against it. You can also create new Payment Entry and manually select values (like Party and payment account). Here are the steps to create Advance Payment against Sales Order.
                        1. Go to Sales Order and click on Make > Payment Entry.
                        2. Set/check the accounts.
                        3. Save and Submit.
Any Payment Entry that is not linked to an invoice is considered as advance payment by the ERPNext system.
If the Customer has given $5,000 as cash advance, it will be recorded as a credit entry against the Customer's Receivable account. To balance it [as per the Double accounting system], $5000 is debited against the Company's cash account.
2.2 Allocating Advance Payment in Invoice 
When creating an invoice, you can check if there is an Advance Payment against that Party.
 Fetch Advance Payments in Sales Invoice 

On clicking Get Advance Received button, it will fetch the Advance Payment Entries found for that party. Once Advance Payment Entries are fetched, you can allocate the Amount of advance against this invoice. The allocation will reduce the Outstanding Amount for that invoice right-away.
Save and submit the Sales Invoice.


Inter Company Journal Entry 
An Inter Company Journal Entry is done between organizations that belong to the same group.
You can create Inter Company Journal Entry if you are making transactions with multiple Companies. You can select the Accounts which you wish to use in the Inter Company transactions. A possible use case would be a company buying goods on behalf of another company.
Before creating an Inter Company Journal Entry, you need to set up your Chart of accounts.
                        1. Go to: Accounts > Company and Accounts > Chart Of Accounts.
                        2. Select the Account which you would like to set as an Internal Account for the transaction, and check the 'Inter Company Account' checkbox. This account can now be used for Inter Company Journal Entry transactions. It is recommended to create a new account for inter company transactions.
 Ledger For Intercompany Transactions 
You need to do the same for all the Companies' Accounts which you want to use for Inter Company Journal Entry transactions.
In case of parent-child companies, when an account is created in the parent company, it gets added in the child company. This works only if you've selected the option to create Chart of Accounts for child Company based on the parent Company.
Inter company Journal Entries are created using the Journal Entry form in ERPNext. To access the Journal Entry list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Company and Accounts > Journal Entry
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating an Inter Company Journal Entry, you need the following:
                           * At least two Companies
                           * Setting inter company accounts in Chart of Accounts
2. How to create an Inter Company Journal Entry 
                           1. Go to the Journal Entry list, and click on New.
                           2. Select Entry Type as 'Inter Company Journal Entry'.
                           3. Set the Company that is buying Items on behalf of another company.
                           4. Add rows for the individual accounting entries. Only inter company accounts can be fetched here.
                           5. In each row, you must specify:
                           * The Internal account that will be affected.
                           * The amount to Debit or Credit.
                           * The Cost Center (If it is an Income or Expense).
                           6. On submitting the Journal Entry, you will find a button on the top right corner, Make Inter Company Journal Entry.
 Inter Company Journal Entry 
                           7. Click on the button. Now, you will be asked to select the Company against which you wish to create the linked Journal Entry.
 Company Master 
                           8. On selecting the Company, you will be routed to another Journal Entry where the relevant fields will be mapped, i.e. Company, Voucher Type, Inter Company Journal Entry Reference etc.
 Auto Generated Inter Company Journal Entry 
                           9. Select the Internal accounts for the second Company in the table.
                           10. Submit the Journal Entry.
                           11. Make sure the total Debit and Credit Amounts are same as the previously created Journal Entry's total Credit and Debit Amounts respectively but the debits and credits will be opposite.
Note: The accounts in second Journal Entry should be the opposite of what you did in the first Journal Entry. For example, Company A is buying something from Company B. This is how the payment cycle between the two companies will look like using Inter Company Journal Entry.
                              1. Debit Bank Account by 500 and credit Debtors account of Company B by 500.
                              2. Now, in the Inter Company Journal Entry, debit Creditors account of Company A by 500 and credit Bank Account by 500.
                              3. You also need to select the parties for Creditors and Debtors account before proceeding with the Journal Entry.
You can also find the reference link at the bottom, which will be added in both the linked Journal Entries and will be removed if any of the Journal Entries are cancelled.


Journal Entry 
A Journal Entry is an entry made in the general ledger and it indicates the affected accounts.
A Journal Entry is a multi purpose transaction where the debit and credit accounts can be selected.
All types of accounting entries other than Sales and Purchase transactions are made using the Journal Entry. A Journal Entry is a standard accounting transaction that affects multiple Accounts and the sum of debits is equal to the sum of credits. A Journal Entry Impacts the main ledger.
Journal Entries can be used for entering expenses, opening entries, contra entries, bank payments, excise entries, etc. For example, booking running expenses, direct expenses like petrol/transport, sundry expenses, adjustment entries, and adjusting invoice amount.
Note: From version-13 onwards we have introduced immutable ledger which changes the way cancellation of accounting entries works in ERPNext. Learn more here.
To access the Journal Entry list, go to:
Home > Accounting > General Ledger > Journal Entry
1. How to create a Journal Entry 
                              1. Go to the Journal Entry list, click on New.
                              2. The default Entry Type will be 'Journal Entry'. This is a general purpose entry type. Visit section 3 to know more about entry types.
                              3. You can change the Posting Date.
                              4. Expand the table, select an Account from which amount is debited.
                              5. The above details can be added from a Journal Entry Template too with the 'From Template' field.
                              6. Select the Party Type and Party if it's a Debtor entry.
                              7. Add a row where the amount will be credited.
                              8. Note that, in the end, total debit and credit amounts should add up to be the same.
                              9. Save and Submit.
 Journal Entry 

Finance Book: You can post this entry to a specific Finance Book. On leaving this field blank, this Journal Entry will show up in all Finance Books. This field will only be visible if 'Enable Finance Books' under the Fixed Asset Defaults section of the Company master is checked.
1.1 Quick Entry 
When creating a Journal Entry, a Quick Entry button can be seen on the top right. This makes creating the Journal Entry a bit easier. Enter the amount, select the accounts, add a remark. This will populate the 'Accounting Entries' table with the selected details.
 Quick Entry 

2. Features 
2.1 Accounting Entries 
                              1. Accounting Dimensions: A Project or Cost Center can be linked here to track the costing separately. To know more, visit this page.  Accounting Dimension 
                              2. Bank Account No: If you've added a Bank Account, the number associated with that bank account will be fetched.
                              3. Reference Type: If this Accounting Entry is associated with another transaction, it can be referenced here. Select the Reference Type and select the specific document. For example, if you're creating a Journal Entry against a specific Sales Invoice. Link this Journal Entry to the invoice. The “outstanding” amount of that invoice will be affected.
                              4.  Reference Following are the documents that can be selected in the Journal Entry under Reference Type:
                                 1. Sales Invoice
                                 2. Purchase Invoice
                                 3. Journal Entry
                                 4. Sales Order
                                 5. Purchase Order
                                 6. Expense Claim
                                 7. Asset
                                 8. Loan
                                 9. Payroll Entry
                                 10. Employee Advance
                                 11. Exchange Rate Revaluation
                                 12. Invoice Discounting
                                 13. Is Advance: If this is an advance payment by a Customer, set this option to 'Yes'. This is useful when you have linked a 'Reference Type' form to this Journal Entry. Selecting “Yes” will link this Journal Entry to the transaction selected in the 'Reference Name' field. To know more, visit the Advance Payment Entry page.
                                 14. User Remark: Any additional remarks about the entry can be added in this field.
2.2 Reverse Journal Entry 
In any submitted Journal Entry, there is a dedicated button to reverse the Journal Entry. On clicking the 'Reverse Journal Entry' button, the system creates a new Journal Entry by reversing debit and credit amount against the respective accounts.
 Reverse Journal Entry 

2.3 Difference Entry 
The “Difference” is the difference that remains after summing all debit and credit amounts.
As per double entry accounting system, the total debit should be equal to the total credit.
This should be zero if the Journal Entry is to be “Submitted”. If this number is not zero, you can click on “Make Difference Entry” and the system will automatically add a new row with the amount required to make the total as zero. Select the account to debit/credit and proceed.
 Make Difference 

2.4 Referencing 
A Reference Number can be entered manually and a Reference Date can be set. On entering a Reference Number here, a 'Remark' will be seen, for example:
Note: supplier
Reference #2321 dated 30-09-2019 ₹ 1,000.00 against Sales Invoice ACC-SINV-2019-00064
In th Reference section, the following fields can be entered manually if the bill was recorded offline and not in the ERPNext system. This is only for reference purposes.
                                 1. Bill No
                                 2. Bill Date
                                 3. Due Date
2.5 Multi Currency entries 
If the accounts selected are in different currencies, tick the 'Multi Currency' checkbox. If this checkbox is not enabled, you will not be able to select any foreign currencies in the Journal Entry. This will show the different currency and fetch the 'Exchange Rate'. To know more, visit the Multi Currency Accounting page.
 Multi Currency 

2.6 Journal Entry Template 
From Template field: Selecting an option in this will load details from a Journal Entry Template.
It will fetch and add the following details to the entry:
                                 1. Entry Type
                                 2. Company
                                 3. Series
                                 4. Accounts in Accounting Entries
                                 5. Is Opening
To learn more go to the Journal Entry Template page.
2.7 Print Settings 
 Journal Print Settings 

Pay To / Recd From: The name entered here will show up in the Sales Invoice. This is useful for printing cheques. Go to the print view in the Journal Entry and select the 'Cheque Printing Format'.
Letterhead 
You can print your Journal Entry on your company's letterhead. Know more here.
Print Headings 
Journal Entries can also be titled differently for printing purposes. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to:
Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading
Read Print Headings to know more.
2.7 More Information 
                                 1. Mode of Payment: Whether the payment was done using Wire Transfer, Bank Draft, Credit Card, Cheque, or Cash. New Modes of Payment can also be created. If a Bank Account is set in Mode of Payment, it will be fetched here when the Mode of Payment is selected.
                                 2. Is Opening: If the Journal Entry is of type 'Opening Entry' this field will be set to 'Yes'. To know more, visit the Opening Balance page.
                                 3. From Template: When a template is selected, the 'Accounting Entries' table will be emptied first before loading the accounts from the template. You can add more account entries after that.
3. Journal Entry Types 
Let's take a look at some of the common accounting entries that can be done via Journal Entry in ERPNext.
3.1 Journal Entry 
This is a general purpose entry type which can be used for different purposes. Let's see a few examples.
Expenses (non accruing) 
Many times it may not be necessary to accrue an expense, but it can be directly booked against an expense Account on payment. For example, a travel allowance or a telephone bill. You can directly debit Telephone Expense (instead of your telephone company) and credit your Bank on payment.
                                 1. Debit: Expense Account (like Telephone expense).
                                 2. Credit: Bank or Cash Account.
Crediting Salaries 
For crediting employee salaries, 'Journal Entry' type is used. In this case,
                                 1. Debit: The salary components.
                                 2. Credit: The bank account.
3.2 Inter Company Journal Entry 
If a transaction occurs between a parent and child company, or sister companies, or two companies belonging to the same group, this option can be used to make an Inter Company Journal Entry.
To know more visit the Inter Company Journal Entry page.
3.3 Bank Entry 
Use this type when making or receiving a payment using a Bank Account. For example, paying for an entertainment charges etc using the Company's bank account.
3.4 Cash Entry 
This is the same as 'Bank Entry' but the payment is made via Cash Account.
3.5 Credit Card Entry 
This is a type of entry to easily identify all credit card entries.
3.6 Debit Note 
This is a document sent by a customer (your Company) to a supplier (your Supplier) when returning goods/items.
You can also create a Debit Note directly from a Purchase Invoice.
"Debit Note" is made for a Supplier against a Purchase Invoice or accepted as a credit note from Supplier when a company returns goods. When a Debit Note is made, the Company can either receive a payment from the Supplier or adjust the amount in another invoice.
                                 1. Debit: Supplier Account.
                                 2. Credit: Purchase Return Account.
To know more, visit this page.
3.7 Credit Note 
This is a document sent by a supplier to a customer when returning goods/items.
"Credit Note" is made for a Customer against a Sales Invoice when the company needs to adjust a payment for returned goods. When a Credit Note is made, the seller can either make a payment to the customer or adjust the amount in another invoice.
                                 1. Debit: Sales Return Account.
                                 2. Credit: Customer Account.
To know more, visit this page.
A debit/credit note is usually issued for the value of the goods returned or lesser.
3.8 Contra Entry 
A Contra Entry is booked when the transaction is booked within the same Company of types:
                                 1. Cash to Cash
                                 2. Bank to Bank
                                 3. Cash to Bank
                                 4. Bank to Cash
This is used to record withdrawing or depositing money from a Bank Account. When this entry is used, the money does not leave the company unless it is again used to pay for something.
3.9 Excise Entry 
When a Company buys goods from a Supplier, company pays excise duty on these goods to Supplier. And when a company sells these goods to Customers, it receives excise duty. Company will deduct payable excise duty and deposit balance in Govt. account.
When a Company buys goods with Excise duty:
                                 1. Debit: Purchase Account, Excise Duty Account.
                                 2. Credit: Supplier Account.
When a Company sells goods with Excise duty:
                                 1. Debit: Customer Account.
                                 2. Credit: Sales Account, Excise Duty Account.
Note: Applicable in India, might not be applicable for your country. Please check your country regulations.
3.10 Write Offs or Bad Debts 
If you are writing off an Invoice as a bad debt, you can create a Journal Voucher similar to a Payment, except instead of debiting your Bank, you can debit an Expense Account called Bad Debts.
                                 1. Debit: Bad Debts Written Off
                                 2. Credit: Customer
Note: There may be regulations in your country before you can write off bad debts.
3.11 Opening Entry 
This entry is useful when moving from an another software to ERPNext during any time of the year. Your outstanding bills, equities etc. can be recorded to ERPNext using this entry type. Selecting type will fetch the Balance Sheet accounts.
3.12 Depreciation 
Depreciation is when you write off certain value of your assets as an expense. For example if you have a computer that you will use for say 5 years, you can distribute its expense over the period and pass a Journal Entry at the end of each year reducing its value by a certain percentage.
                                 1. Debit: Depreciation (Expense).
                                 2. Credit: Asset (the Account under which you had booked the asset to be depreciated).
To know more, visit the Asset Depreciation page.
Note: There may be regulations in your country that define by how much amount you can depreciate a class of Assets.
3.13 Exchange Rate Revaluation 
If your Chart of Accounts has accounts with multiple currencies, a Journal Entry of type 'Exchange Rate Revaluation' helps in dealing with this situation. This entry is intended to be created from an Exchange Rate Revaluation form. To know more visit the Exchange Rate Revaluation page.


Sales Invoice 
A Sales Invoice is a bill that you send to your Customers against which the Customer makes the payment.
Sales Invoice is an accounting transaction. On submission of Sales Invoice, the system updates the receivable and books income against a Customer Account.
To access the Sales Invoice list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounts Receivable > Sales Invoice
 SO Flow 

1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Sales Invoice, it is advised to create the following first:
                                 * Item
                                 * Customer
                                 * Optional:
                                 * Sales Order
                                 * Delivery Note
2. How to create a Sales Invoice 
A Sales Invoice is usually created from a Sales Order or a Delivery Note. The Customer's Item details will be fetched into the Sales Invoice. However, you can also create a Sales Invoice directly, for example, a POS invoice.
To fetch the details automatically in a Sales Invoice, click on the Get Items from. The details can be fetched from a Sales Order, Delivery Note, or a Quotation.
For manual creation, follow these steps:
                                 1. Go to the Sales Invoice list and click on New.
                                 2. Select the Customer.
                                 3. Set the Payment Due Date.
                                 4. In the Items table, select the Items and set the quantities.
                                 5. The prices will be fetched automatically if Item Price is added, else add a price in the table.
                                 6. The posting date and time will be set to current, you can edit after you tick the checkbox below Posting Time to make a backdated entry.
                                 7. Save and Submit.  New Sales Invoice 
2.1 Additional options when creating a Sales Invoice 
                                    * Include Payment (POS): If this invoice is for retail sales / Point of Sale. Know more here.
                                    * Is Return Credit Note: Tick this if the customer has returned the Items. To know more details, visit the Credit Note page.
 POS and Credit Note Options 

For India: e-Way Bill No: According to GST rules, transporters need to carry an e-Way Bill. To know how to generate an e-Way Bill, visit this page.
2.2 Statuses 
These are the statuses that are auto-assigned to Sales Invoice.
                                    * Draft: A draft is saved but yet to be submitted.
                                    * Submitted: The invoice is submitted to the system and the general ledger has been updated.
                                    * Paid: Customer has made the payment and a Payment Entry has been submitted.
                                    * Unpaid: Invoice is generated but payment is pending but within the payment due date.
                                    * Overdue: Payment is pending beyond the payment due date.
                                    * Canceled: The Sales Invoice is canceled due to any reason. Once an invoice is canceled, it's impact on Account and Stock is undone.
                                    * Credit Note Issued: The Item is returned by the Customer and a Credit Note is created against this invoice.
                                    * Return: It is assigned to Credit Note created against the original Sales Invoice. Though you can also create a standalone Credit Note.
                                    * Unpaid and Discounted: Payment is pending and any ongoing subscription has been discounted using Invoice Discounting.
                                    * Overdue and Discounted: Payment is pending beyond the payment due date and any ongoing subscription has been discounted using Invoice Discounting.
3. Features 
3.1 Dates 
                                    * Posting Date: The date on which the Sales Invoice will affect your books of accounts i.e. your General Ledger. This will affect all your balances in that accounting period.
                                    * Due Date: The date on which the payment is due (if you have sold on credit). The credit limit can be set from the Customer master.
3.2 Accounting Dimensions 
Accounting Dimensions lets you tag transactions based on a specific Territory, Branch, Customer, etc. This helps in viewing accounting statements separately based on the selected dimension(s). To know more, check help on Accounting Dimensions feature.
Note: Project and Cost Center are treated as dimensions by default.
3.3 Customer PO Details 
                                    * Customer's Purchase Order: Track customer's PO No. received, primarily to prevent the creation of duplicate Sales Order or Invoice for the same PO received from the Customer. You can do more configuration related to customer's PO No. validation in Selling Settings
                                    * Customer's Purchase Order Date: The date on which the Customer placed the Purchase Order.
 Purchase Order Details 

3.4 Address and Contact 
                                    * Customer Address: This is the Billing Address of the Customer.
                                    * Contact Person: If the Customer is a company, the person to be contacted is fetched in this field if set in the Customer form.
                                    * Territory: A Territory is the region where the Customer belongs to, fetched from the Customer form. The default value is All Territories.
                                    * Shipping Address: Address where the items will be shipped to.
For India, the following details can be recorded for GST purposes. You can capture these details in the Address and Customer master, which would be fetched in the Sales Invoice.
                                    * Billing Address GSTIN
                                    * Customer GSTIN
                                    * Place of Supply
                                    * Company GSTIN
3.5 Currency 
You can set the currency in which the Sales Invoice order is to be sent. This can be fetched from the Customer master or preceding transactions like Sales Order.
                                    * Wish to select Customer's currency just for the reference of the Customer, whereas accounts posting will be done in the Company's base currency only. Learn more here.
                                    * Maintain separate receivable account in the Customer's currency. The Receivable for this invoice should be posted in that currency itself. Read Multi Currency Accounting to learn more.
3.6 Price list 
If you select a Price List, then the item prices will be fetched from that list. Ticking on 'Ignore Pricing Rule' will ignore the Pricing Rules set in Accounts > Pricing Rule.
Read Price List documentation to know more.
3.7 The Items table 
Note: From version-13 onwards we have introduced immutable ledger which changes the rules for cancellation of stock entries and posting backdated stock transactions in ERPNext. Learn more here.
                                    * Update Stock Ticking this checkbox will update the Stock Ledger on submitting the Sales Invoice. If you've created a Delivery Note, the Stock Ledger will be changed. If you're skipping the creation of Delivery Note, tick this checkbox.
                                    * Scan Barcode: You can add Items in the Items table by scanning their barcodes if you have a barcode scanner. Read documentation for tracking items using barcode to know more.
                                    * Grant Commission: Grant a commission to Sales Person and Sales Partner on the net amount of this line item. If disabled, this line item will be ignored in the calculation of commission.
                                    * The Item Code, name, description, Image, and Manufacturer will be fetched from the Item master.
                                    * Discount and Margin: You can apply a discount on individual Items percentage-wise or on the total amount of the Item. Read Applying Discount for more details.
                                    * Rate: The Rate is fetched if set in the Price List and the total Amount is calculated.
                                    * Drop Ship: Drop Shipping is when you make the sales transaction, but the Item is delivered by the Supplier. To know more, visit the Drop Shipping page.
                                    * Accounting Details: The Income and Expense accounts can be changed here you you wish to. If this Item is an Asset, it can be linked here. This is useful when you're selling an Asset.
                                    * Deferred Revenue: If the income for this Item will be billed over the coming months in parts, then tick on 'Enable Deferred Revenue'. To know more, visit the Deferred Revenue page.
                                    * Item Weight: The Item Weight details per unit and Weight UOM are fetched if set in the Item master.
                                    * Stock Details: The following details will be fetched from the Item master:
                                    * Warehouse: The Warehouse from where the stock will be sent.
                                    * Available Qty at Warehouse: The quantity available in the selected Warehouse.
                                    * Batch No and Serial No: If your Item is serialized or batched, you will have to enter Serial Number and Batch in the Items table. You are allowed to enter multiple Serial Numbers in one row (each on a separate line) and you must enter the same number of Serial Numbers as the quantity.
                                    * Item Tax Template: You can set an Item Tax Template to apply a specific Tax amount to this particular Item. To know more, visit this page.
                                    * References: If this Sales Invoice was created from a Sales Order/Delivery Note, it'll be referred here. Also, the Delivered Quantity will be shown.
                                    * Page Break will create a page break just before this Item when printing.
3.8 Timesheet 
If you want to bill Employees working on Projects on an hourly basis (contract based), they can fill out Timesheets which consists of their billing rate. When you make a new Sales Invoice, select the Project for which the billing is to be made, and the corresponding Timesheet entries for that Project will be fetched.
If your Company's Employees are working at a location and it needs to be billed, you can create an Invoice based on the Timesheet.
 SI Timesheet 

To know more, visit this page.
3.9 Taxes and Charges 
The Taxes and Charges will be fetched from the Sales Order or Delivery Note.
Visit the Sales Taxes and Charges Template page to know more about taxes.
The total taxes and charges will be displayed below the table.
To add taxes automatically via a Tax Category, visit this page.
Make sure to mark all your taxes in the Taxes and Charges table correctly for an accurate valuation.
 SI Tax 

Shipping Rule 
A Shipping Rule helps set the cost of shipping an Item. The cost will usually increase with the distance of shipping. To know more, visit the Shipping Rule page.
3.10 Loyalty Points Redemption 
If the Customer is enrolled in a Loyalty Program, they can choose to redeem it. To know more, visit the Loyalty Program page.
3.11 Additional Discount 
Any additional discounts to the whole Invoice can be set in this section. This discount could be based on the Grand Total i.e., post tax/charges or Net total i.e., pre tax/charges. The additional discount can be applied as a percentage or an amount. Visit the Applying Discount page for more details.
 Additional Discount in Sales Invoice 

3.12 Cash and Non Trade Discount 
In many cases, the discount given on Invoices on the grand total amount is not an itemized discount. Its a cash or a non-trade discount, means that this type of discount doesn't affect the tax value applied on the items.
If this is unchecked the discount applied on grand total will still be considered as an itemized discount since its affecting tax values
 Cash and Non Trade Discount 

3.13 Advance Payment 
For high-value Items, the seller can request an advance payment before processing the order. The Get Advances Received button opens a popup from where you can fetch the orders where the advance payment was made. To know more, visit the Advance Payment Entry page.
3.14 Payment Terms 
The payment for an invoice may be made in parts depending on your understanding with the Supplier. This is fetched if set in the Sales Order. To know more, visit the Payment Terms page.
3.15 Write Off 
Write off happens when the Customer pays an amount less than the invoice amount. This may be a small difference like 0.50. Over several orders, this might add up to a big number. For accounting accuracy, this difference amount is 'written off'. To know more, visit the Payment Terms page.
3.16 Terms and Conditions 
There may be certain terms and conditions on the Item you're selling, these can be applied here. Read Terms and Condition documentation to know how to add them.
3.17 Transporter Information 
If you outsource transporting Items to their delivery location, the transporter details can be added. This is not the same as drop shipping.
                                    * Transporter: The Supplier who will transport the Item to your Customer. The transporter feature should be enabled in the Supplier master to select the Supplier here.
                                    * Driver: You can add a Driver here who will drive the mode of transport.
The details are usually fetched from the Delivery Note.
 Delivery Note Transport 

The following details can be recorded:
                                    * Distance in km
                                    * Mode of Transport whether road, air, rail, or ship.
For India, GST:
                                    * GST Transporter ID
                                    * Transport Receipt No
                                    * Vehicle No The GST Vehicle Type can be changed
The Transport Receipt Date and Driver Name will be fetched.
3.18 Printing Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your Sales Invoice on your Company's letterhead. Know more here.
'Group same items' will group the same items added multiple times in the Items table. This can be seen when your print.
Print Headings 
Sales Invoice headings can also be changed when printing the document. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
There are additional checkboxes for printing the Sales Invoice without the amount, this might be useful when the Item is of high value. You can also group the same Items in one row when printing.
3.19 GST Details (for India) 
The following details can be set for GST:
                                    * GST Category
                                    * Invoice Copy
                                    * Reverse Charge
                                    * E-commerce GSTIN
                                    * Print Heading
3.20 More Information 
The following Sales details can be recorded:
                                    * Campaign: If this invoice is a part of on ongoing sales Campaign, it can be linked. To know more, visit the Campaign page.
                                    * Source: A Lead Source can be tagged here to know the source of sales. To know more, visit the Lead Source page.
 SI More info 

3.21 Accounting  SI Ledger Details 
                                    * Debit To: The account against which receivable will be booked for this Customer.
                                    * Is Opening Entry: If this is an opening entry to affect your accounts select 'Yes'. i.e. if you're migrating from another ERP to ERPNext mid year, you might want to use an Opening Entry to update account balances in ERPNext.
                                    * Remarks: Any additional remarks about the Sales Invoice can be added here.
 Accounting Details 

3.22 Commission 
If the sale took place via one of your Sales Partners, you can add their commission details here. This is usually fetched from the Sales Order/Delivery Note.
3.23 Sales Team 
Sales Persons: ERPNext allows you to add multiple Sales Persons who may have worked on this deal. This is also fetched from the Sales Order/Delivery Note.
3.24 Automatically Fetching Item Batch Numbers 
If you are selling an Item from a Batch, ERPNext will automatically fetch a batch number for you if "Update Stock" is checked. The batch number will be fetched on a First Expiring First Out (FEFO) basis. This is a variant of First In First Out (FIFO) that gives the highest priority to the soonest to expire Items.
Note that if the first batch in the queue cannot satisfy the order on the invoice, the next batch in the queue that can satisfy the order will be selected. If no batch can satisfy the order, ERPNext will cancel its attempt to automatically fetch a suitable batch number.
3.25 POS Invoices 
Consider a scenario where the retail transaction is carried out. For e.g: A retail shop. If you check the Is POS checkbox, then all your POS Profile data is fetched into the Sales Invoice and you can easily make payments.
Also, if you check the Update Stock the stock will also update automatically, without the need for a Delivery Note.
 POS Invoice 

3.26 After Submitting 
On submitting a Sales Invoice, the following documents can be created against it:
                                    1. Journal Entry
                                    2. Payment Entry
                                    3. Payment Request
                                    4. Invoice Discounting
                                    5. Delivery Note
 SI Submit 

4. More 
Accounting Impact 
All Sales must be booked against an “Income Account”. This refers to an Account in the “Income” section of your Chart of Accounts. It is a good practice to classify your income by type (like product income, service income, etc). The Income Account must be set for each row of the Items table.
Tip: To set default Income Accounts for Items, you can set it in the Item or Item Group.
The other account that is affected is the Account of the Customer. That is automatically set from “Debit To” in the heading section.
You can also mention the Cost Centers in which your Income must be booked. Remember that your Cost Centers tell you the profitability of the different lines of business or product. You can also set a default Cost Center in the Item master. See also: Accounting Dimensions.
Accounting entries (GL Entry) for a typical double entry “Sale”: 
When booking a sale (accrual):
                                    * Debit: Customer (grand total)
                                    * Credit: Income (net total, minus taxes for each Item)
                                    * Credit: Taxes (liabilities to be paid to the government)

To see entries in your Sales Invoice after you “Submit”, click on “View Ledger”.
 Purchase Invoice 
A Purchase Invoice is a bill you receive from your Suppliers against which you need to make the payment.
Purchase Invoice is the exact opposite of your Sales Invoice. Here you accrue expenses to your Supplier. Making a Purchase Invoice is very similar to making a Purchase Order.
To access the Purchase Invoice list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Accounts Payable > Purchase Invoice
 PI Flow 

1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Purchase Invoice, it is advised to create the following first:
                                       * Item
                                       * Supplier
                                       * Purchase Order
                                       * Purchase Receipt (optional)
2. How to create a Purchase Invoice: 
A Purchase Invoice is usually created from a Purchase Order or a Purchase Receipt. The Supplier's Item details will be fetched into the Purchase Invoice. However, you can also create a Purchase Invoice directly.
To fetch the details automatically in a Purchase Invoice, click on the Get Items from. The details can be fetched from a Purchase Order or Purchase Receipt.
For manual creation, follow these steps:
                                       1. Go to the Purchase Invoice list, click on New.
                                       2. Select the Supplier.
                                       3. The posting date and time will be set to current, you can edit after you tick the checkbox below Posting Time.
                                       4. Set the Due Date for payment.
                                       5. Add Items and quantities in the Items table.
                                       6. The Rate and Amount will be fetched.
                                       7. Save and Submit.
 Purchase Invoice 

2.1 Additional options when creating a Purchase Invoice 
                                       * Is Paid: You can tick 'Is Paid' if the amount has already been paid via an Advance Payment Entry. This should be ticked if there is full or partial payment.
                                       * Is Return (Debit Note): Tick this if the customer has returned the Items. To know more details, visit the Debit Note page.
                                       * Apply Tax Withholding Amount: If the selected Supplier has a Tax Withholding Category set, this checkbox will be enabled. For more information, visit the Tax Withholding Category page.
2.2 Statuses 
                                       * Draft: A draft is saved but yet to be submitted to the system.
                                       * Return: The Items have been returned to the Supplier.
                                       * Debit Note Issued: The Items have been returned and a Debit Note has been issued against the invoice.
                                       * Submitted: The Purchase Invoice has been submitted to the system and the general ledger has been updated.
                                       * Paid: Supplier has been fully paid the invoice amount and the corresponding Payment Entries have been submitted.
                                       * Partly Paid: Supplier has been paid a part of the invoice amount and the corresponding Payment Entries have been submitted.
                                       * Unpaid: The Purchase Invoice is yet to be paid.
                                       * Overdue: The due date has passed for payment.
                                       * Canceled: The invoice has been canceled due to some reason.
3. Features 
3.1 Accounting Dimensions 
Accounting Dimensions lets you tag transactions based on a specific Territory, Branch, Customer, etc. This helps in viewing accounting statements separately based on the criteria selected. To know more, visit the Accounting Dimensions page.
Note: Project and Cost Center are treated as dimensions by default.
3.2 Holding the Invoice 
Sometimes you may need to hold an invoice from being submitted.
Hold Invoice: Enable this checkbox to put the Purchase Invoice on hold. This can be done only before submitting the invoice. Once 'Hold Invoice' is enabled and the Purchase Invoice is submitted, the status will change to 'Temporarily on Hold'.
 Purchase Invoice on Hold 

Once the purchase invoice gets submit and you want to change 'Release Date' then you can take the help of the 'Hold Invoice' button, which is available on the top right.
If you want to hold submitted purchase invoice then you can hold using 'Block Invoice' option and If you want to unblock again then use 'Unblock Invoice' option.
 Block PI 

This is invoice level holding, Suppliers can be put on hold. Learn more here.
3.3 Supplier Invoice Details 
                                       * Supplier Invoice No: The Supplier may identify this order with a number of his own. This is for reference.
                                       * Supplier Invoice Date: The date on which the Supplier placed/confirmed your order from his end.
3.4 Address and Contact 
                                       * Supplier Address: This is the Billing Address of the Supplier.
                                       * Contact Person: If the Supplier is a Company, the person to be contacted is fetched in this field if set in the Supplier form.
                                       * Shipping Address: Address where the items will be shipped to.
For India, the following details can be recorded for GST purposes:
                                       * Supplier GSTIN
                                       * Place of Supply
                                       * Company GSTIN
3.5 Currency and Price list 
You can set the currency in which the Purchase Invoice order is to be sent. This is fetched from the Purchase Order. If you set a Pricing List, then the item prices will be fetched from that list. Ticking on 'Ignore Pricing Rule' will ignore the Pricing Rules set in Accounts > Pricing Rule.
 Purchase Invoice Price List 

Read about Price Lists and Multi-Currency Transactions to know more.
3.6 Subcontracting or 'Supply Raw Materials' 
Setting 'Supply Raw Materials' option is useful for subcontracting where you provide the raw materials for manufacturing an Item. To know more, visit the Subcontracting page.
3.7 Items table 
                                       * scan barcode: You can add Items in the Items table by scanning their barcodes if you have a barcode scanner. Read documentation for tracking items using barcode to know more.
                                       * The Item Code, name, description, Image, and Manufacturer will be fetched from the Item master.
                                       * Manufacturer: If the Item is manufactured by a specific manufacturer, it can be added here. This will be fetched if set in the Item master.
                                       * Quantity and Rate: When you select the Item code, its name, description, and UOM will be fetched. The 'UOM Conversion Factor' is set to 1 by default, you can change it depending on the UOM received from the seller, more in the next section.
'Price List Rate' will be fetched if a Standard Buying rate is set. 'Last Purchase Rate' shows the rate of the item from your last Purchase Order. Rate is fetched if set in the item master. You can attach an Item Tax Template to apply a specific tax rate to the item.
                                       * Item weights will be fetched if set in the Item master else enter manually.
                                       * Discount on Price List Rate: You can apply a discount on individual Items percentage-wise or on the total amount of the Item. Read Applying Discount for more details.
                                       * Item Weight: The Item Weight details per unit and Weight UOM are fetched if set in the Item master, else enter manually.
                                       * Accounting Details: The Expense account can be changed here you wish to.
                                       * Deferred Expense: If the expense for this Item will be billed over the coming months in parts, then tick on 'Enable Deferred Expense'. To know more, visit the Deferred Expense page.
                                       * Allow Zero Valuation Rate: Ticking on 'Allow Zero Valuation Rate' will allow submitting the Purchase Receipt even if the Valuation Rate of the Item is 0. This can be a sample item or due to a mutual understanding with your Supplier.
                                       * BOM: If there is a Bill of Materials created for the Item, it'll be fetched here. This is useful for reference when subcontracting.
                                       * Item Tax Template: You can set an Item Tax Template to apply a specific Tax amount to this particular Item. To know more, visit this page.
                                       * Page Break will create a page break just before this Item when printing.
Update Stock 
Note: From version-13 onwards we have introduced immutable ledger which changes the rules for cancellation of stock entries and posting backdated stock transactions in ERPNext. Learn more here.
The Update Stock checkbox should be checked if you want ERPNext to automatically update your inventory. Consequently, there will be no need for a Delivery Note.
3.8 Taxes and charges 
The Taxes and Charges will be fetched from the Purchase Order or Purchase Receipt.
 Purchase Invoice Tax 

Visit the Purchase Taxes and Charges Template page to know more about taxes.
The total taxes and charges will be displayed below the table.
To add taxes automatically via a Tax Category, visit this page.
Make sure to mark all your taxes in the Taxes and Charges table correctly for an accurate valuation.
Shipping Rule 
A Shipping Rule helps set the cost of shipping an Item. The cost will usually increase with the distance of shipping. To know more, visit the Shipping Rule page.
3.9 Additional Discount 
Any additional discounts to the whole Invoice can be set in this section. This discount could be based on the Grand Total i.e., post tax/charges or Net total i.e., pre tax/charges. The additional discount can be applied as a percentage or an amount.
 Purchase Invoice Discount 

Visit the Applying Discount page for more details.
3.10 Advance Payment 
For high-value Items, the seller can request an advance payment before processing the order. The Get Advances Received button opens a popup from where you can fetch the orders where advance payment was made. To know more, visit the Advance Payment Entry page.
3.11 Payment Terms 
The payment for an invoice may be made in parts depending on your understanding with the Supplier. This is fetched if set in the Purchase Order.
 Purchase Invoice Payment Terms 

To know more, visit the Payment Terms page.
3.12 Write Off 
Write off happens when the Customer pays an amount less than the invoice amount. This may be a small difference like 0.50. Over several orders, this might add up to a big number. For accounting accuracy, this difference amount is 'written off'. To know more, visit the Payment Terms page.
3.13 Terms and Conditions 
In Sales/Purchase transactions there might be certain Terms and Conditions based on which the Supplier provides goods or services to the Customer. You can apply the Terms and Conditions to transactions to transactions and they will appear when printing the document. To know about Terms and Conditions, click here
3.14 Printing Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your Purchase Invoice on your Company's letterhead. Know more here.
'Group same items' will group the same items added multiple times in the Items table. This can be seen when your print.
Print Headings 
Purchase Invoice headings can also be changed when printing the document. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
There are additional checkboxes for printing the Purchase Invoice without the amount, this might be useful when the Item is of high value. You can also group the same Items in one row when printing.
3.15 GST Details (for India) 
The following details can be set for GST:
                                          * GST Category
                                          * Invoice Copy
                                          * Reverse Charge
                                          * E-commerce GSTIN
                                          * Eligibility For ITC
                                          * Availed ITC Integrated Tax
                                          * Availed ITC Central Tax
                                          * Availed ITC State/UT Tax
                                          * Availed ITC Cess
3.16 More Information 
                                          * Is Opening Entry: If this is an opening entry to affect your accounts select 'Yes'. i.e. if you're migrating from another ERP to ERPNext mid year, you might want to use an Opening Entry to update account balances in ERPNext.
                                          * Remarks: Any additional remarks about the Purchase Invoice can be added here.
3.17 After Submitting 
On submitting a Purchase Invoice, the following documents can be created against it:
                                          1. Journal Entry
                                          2. Payment Entry
                                          3. Payment Request
                                          4. Landed Cost Voucher
                                          5. Asset
 PI Submit 

4. More 
4.1 Accounting Impact 
Similar to a Sales Invoice, in a Purchase Invoice you have to enter an Expense or an Asset account for each row in your Items table. This helps to indicate if the Item is an Asset or an Expense. You can also change the Cost Center. These can also be set in the Item master. The Cost Center can be set at the Company level.
The Purchase Invoice will affect your accounts as follows:
                                          * Accounting entries (GL Entry) for a typical double entry “purchase”:
                                          * Debits:
                                          * Expense or Asset (net totals, excluding taxes)
                                          * Taxes (/assets if VAT-type or expense again)
                                          * Credits:
                                          * Supplier
 Purchase Invoice Ledger 

4.2 Accounting When Is Paid is checked 
If Is Paid is checked, ERPNext will also make the following accounting entries:
Debits:
                                          * Supplier
Credits:
                                          * Bank/Cash Account
To see entries in your Purchase Invoice after you “Submit”, click on “View Ledger”.
4.3 Is purchase an “Expense” or an “Asset”? 
If the Item is consumed immediately on purchase, or if it is a service, then the purchase becomes an “Expense”. For example, a telephone bill or travel bill is an “Expense” - it is already consumed.
For inventory Items, that have a value, these purchases are not yet “Expense”, because they still have a value while they remain in your stock. They are “Assets”. If they are raw-materials (used in a process), they will become “Expense” the moment they are consumed in the process. If they are to be sold to a Customer, they become “Expense” when you ship them to the Customer.
4.4 Deducting Taxes at Source 
In many countries, the law may require you to deduct taxes, while paying your suppliers. These taxes could be based on a standard rate. Under these type of schemes, typically if a Supplier crosses a certain threshold of payment, and if the type of product is taxable, you may have to deduct some tax (which you pay back to your government, on your Supplier’s behalf).
To do this, you will have to make a new Tax Account under “Tax Liabilities” or similar and credit this Account by the percent you are bound to deduct for every transaction.
4.5 Hold Payments For A Purchase Invoice 
There are two ways to put a purchase invoice on hold:
                                          * Date Span Hold
                                          * Explicit Hold
Explicit Hold 
Explicit hold holds the purchase invoice indefinitely. To do it, in the "Hold Invoice" section of the purchase invoice form, simply check the "Hold Invoice" checkbox. In the "Reason For Putting On Hold" text field, type a comment explaining why the invoice is to be put on hold.
If you need to hold a submitted invoice, click the "Make" button and click "Block Invoice". Also, add a comment explaining why the invoice is to be put on hold in the dialog that pops up and click "Save".
Date Span Hold 
Date span hold holds the purchase invoice until a specified date. To do it, in the "Hold Invoice" section of the purchase invoice form, check the "Hold Invoice" checkbox. Next, input the release date in the dialog that pops up and click "Save". The release date is the date that the hold on the document expires.
After the invoice has been saved, you can change the release date by clicking on the "Hold Invoice" drop down button and then "Change Release Date". This action will cause a dialog to appear.
 Purchase Invoice on hold 

Select the new release date and click "Save". You should also enter a comment in the "Reason For Putting On Hold" field.
Take note of the following:
                                          * All purchases that have been placed on hold will not be included in a Payment Entry's references table
                                          * The release date cannot be in the past.
                                          * You can only block or unblock a purchase invoice if it is unpaid.
                                          * You can only change the release date if the invoice is unpaid.
4.5 Provisional accounting for expenses (only for Non Stock Items) 
In many situations a service is received and the expense is incurred but the Purchase Invoicing for that service is done in the subsequent month, so this expense doesn't flow into your monthly financial statements like Profit and Loss as invoicing is still pending. Provisional Accounting helps you address this problem. Below are the steps to setup provisional accounting.
                                          1. Enable provisional accounting in company master and set default provisional account
 Enable Provisional Accounting 
                                          2. Make a Purchase Receipt for a non-stock item
 Provisional Accounting Purchase Receipt 
Accounting entries against the Purchase Receipt will be as follows
 Accounting Entries for Purchase Receipt 
                                          3. Make a Purchase Invoice against the Purchase Receipt
Accounting entries against Purchase Invoice will be posted as usual
 Accounting Entries for Purchase Receipt 
On posting purchase invoice accounting entries against purchase receipt will be reversed  Accounting Entries for Purchase Invoice 
Inter Company Invoices 
An Inter Company Journal Invoice is done between organizations that belong to the same group.
Along with creating Purchase Invoices or Sales Invoices for a single company, you can create inter-linked invoices for multiple companies.
For example, you can create a Purchase Invoice for a company say 'Company ABC', and create a Sales Invoice against this Purchase Invoice for another company say 'Company XYZ' and link them together.
1. How to create Inter Company Invoices 
1.1 Setting up 
                                             1. Go to: Accounts > Masters > Customer.
                                             2. Select the Customer who you would want to choose for the inter-linked invoice.
                                             3. Enable the checkbox, Is Internal Customer shown as follows:
 Internal Customer 

                                             1. Add the company which the Customer represents in the Represents Company field. This the company for which the Sales Invoice will be created.
                                             2. In the Allowed To Transact With table, add the company against which you will be creating a Purchase Invoice.
                                             3. Now, when you create a Purchase Invoice against company A (customer is from company B, the seller is company A), it'll be linked to the Sales Invoice for company A created using this Internal Customer from company B.
                                             4. Now, you need to follow a similar procedure for setting up a Supplier for inter-linked invoices.
                                             5. Go to: Accounts > Masters > Select the Supplier
                                             6. Tick on Is Internal Supplier.
                                             7. In the Represents Company field, add the company which you added in the table Allowed To Transact With for the Customer.
                                             8. In the table Allowed To Transact With for the Supplier, add the company which the Customer represents. This is the company against which you are going to make an inter-linked Purchase Invoice.
                                             9. Here is a screenshot of the Supplier company to avoid any confusion:
 Inter Company Supplier 

1.2 Creating the Invoice 
                                             1. Now, create a new Sales Invoice, fill up the fields.
                                             2. Remember to select the Customer who is an internal customer and company from which he's buying.
                                             3. Save and Submit the Invoice.
 Inter company invoice 

                                             4. Before you make an Inter Company Invoice you need to do the following:
                                                1. The selling and buying price between the companies should be in sync.
                                                2. Go to Stock > Price List, create a new Price List for inter company transactions.
                                                3. Tick both Selling and Buying in this new Price List.
                                                4. Go to Buying > Supplier > internal supplier, in the currency and price list section, set the price list to the new one just created.
                                                5. Do the same for the internal customer, i.e., set the price list to the new one.
                                                6. Now, you can make an inter company Purchase or Sales Invoice.
                                                5. Under the Make button dropdown, you will find a link Inter Company Invoice, on clicking the link, you will be routed to a new Purchase Invoice form page.
                                                6. Here, the supplier and company will be auto-fetched depending on the company you selected in the Sales Invoice. > Remember: There can only be a single Internal Supplier or Customer per company.
                                                7. Submit the invoice, done! Now, both the invoices are inter-linked. Also, on canceling any of the invoices, the link will break as well.
Note: An Inter Company invoice will only affect the accounting ledger and not the stock ledger. This is because the companies belong to the same group of companies.
You can follow the same process to create a Purchase Invoice and then an inter-linked Sales Invoice from the submitted Purchase Invoice.
Credit Note 
A Credit Note is a document sent by a seller to the Customer, notifying that a credit has been made to their account against the goods returned by the buyer.
A Credit Note is issued for the value of goods returned by the Customer, it may be less than or equal to the total amount of the order.
1. How to make a Credit Note 
The user can make a Credit Note against the Sales Invoice or they can directly make Credit Note from the Sales Invoice without reference. Note that to create a Credit Note, the invoice must be paid using a Payment Entry.
                                                1. Go to the respective Sales Invoice and click on Create > Return / Credit Note.  Credit Note from Invoice 
                                                2. The Customer and Item details will be fetched as set in the Sales Invoice.
                                                3. If the Customer had paid partially or fully, make a Payment Entry against the original Sales Invoice.
                                                4. Save and Submit.
 Credit Note 
The Item quantity and Payment amount will be negative since it's a return.
1.1 How does Credit Note affect ledger 
Once a Payment Entry is created against the original Sales Invoice, the amount will be added to the Customer's account in negative so that the next time they make a purchase, this amount will be adjusted.
This is how the ledger is affected after a payment entry against a returned invoice:  Credit Note Ledger 
Refer the Sales Invoice page for any other details.
1.2 No payment was made against Sales Invoice 
In case no payment was made against the original invoice, you could just cancel the Sales Invoice. But, if only 5 out of 10 Items are being returned from an invoice, creating a Credit Note is useful for updating the ledger.
2. Example 
Customer Rohan had purchased PVC pipes worth Rs 300 + taxes and at the time of delivery, Customer found that the products were damaged. Now Rohan has returned the product a Credit Note will be issued.
Credit Note with payment entry in ERPNext for above example is as below:
 Creating Credit Note 



Debit Note 
A Debit Note is a document sent by a buyer to the Supplier notifying that a debit has been recorded against the goods returned to the Supplier.
A Debit Note is issued for the value of the goods returned. In some cases, sellers are seen sending Debit Notes which should be treated as like another invoice.
A Debit is for your record of the debit against the Items your return.
1. How to create Debit Note 
The user can make a Debit Note against the Purchase Invoice or they can directly make Debit Note from the Purchase Invoice without reference.
                                                   1. Go to the respective Purchase Invoice and click on Create > Return / Debit Note.  Debit Note from Invoice 
                                                   2. The Supplier and Item details will be fetched as set in the Purchase Invoice.
                                                   3. If you had paid partially or fully, make a Payment Entry against the original Purchase Invoice.
                                                   4. Save and Submit.
 Debit Note 
The other steps are similar to a Purchase Invoice.
1.1 How does Debit Note affect ledger 
The Debit Note will reverse the impact of the purchase invoice.
 Debit Note Ledger 

Refer the Purchase Invoice page for any other details.
1.2 No payment was made against Sales Invoice 
In case no payment was made against the original invoice, you could just cancel the Sales Invoice. But, if only 5 out of 10 Items are being returned from an invoice, creating a Debit Note is useful for updating the ledger.
2. Example 
From Supplier Blue Mills, you had purchased Cotton worth Rs 2400 + taxes and at the time of delivery, you found that the products were damaged. Now you returned the product a Debit Note will be issued.
Debit Note with payment entry in ERPNext for above example is as below:
 Creating Debit Note 



Credit Limit 
Credit Limit is the maximum amount of credit you are willing to offer to a Customer.
A Credit Limit is the maximum amount of credit that a financial institution or other lender will extend to a debtor for a particular line of credit. From a Customer's perspective, it is the maximum amount of goods or services they can get without paying money upfront.
You can set the Credit Limit in Customer, Customer Group, and in the Company. When a Sales Order or a Sales Invoice is submitted, the Credit Limit will be checked.
The order of precedence for checking Credit Limit is as follows:
                                                      * Credit Limit set in Customer
                                                      * Credit Limit set in Customer Group
                                                      * Credit Limit set in Company
1. How to Set Credit Limit 
                                                      1. Go to: Selling > Sales > Customer > Customer.
                                                      2. Under Credit Limit and Payment Terms section, set the Credit Limit.
                                                      3. If you leave the Credit Limit as the default, i.e., 0, it has no effect.
                                                      4. Save.
 Customer Credit Limit 
2. Features 
2.1 Credit Controller 
You can allow users with a specific role to override the Credit Limit validation and submit a Sales Order or Sales Invoice even when a Customer's Credit Limit is fully utilized.
To set the Credit Controller role:
                                                         1. Go to: Accounting > Settings > Accounts Settings
                                                         2. Set the role in Credit Controller field.
 Credit Manager 

2.2 Bypass Credit Limit Check for Sales Order 
For specific customers, you can set the credit limit to be checked against the cumulative amount of the outstanding sales invoices and not the sales orders. You can do so by ticking 'Bypass credit limit check at Sales Order' checkbox in 'Credit Limit and Payment Terms' section of the customer.
 Credit Limit Bypass in Sales Order 

2.3 Credit Limit for Customer Groups 
To set Credit Limit at Customer Group Level:
                                                         1. Go to Selling > Customers > Customer Group.
                                                         2. Open the Customer Group and set the Credit Limit.
2.4 Credit Limit for Company 
On setting Credit Limit at the Company level, all the Customers will have this Credit Limit applied globally.
To set Credit Limit at Company level:
                                                         1. Go to Accounting > Masters and Accounts > Company.
                                                         2. Open the Company and set the Credit Limit.
Point of Sale Profile 
In ERPNext, a POS profile allows using the Point of Sale feature.
POS includes advanced features to cater to different functionality, such as inventory management, CRM, financials, warehousing, etc., all built into the POS software. Before modern POS, all of these functions were done independently and required the manual re-keying of information, which could lead to entry errors.
If you are in retail operations, you want your Point of Sale to be as quick and efficient as possible. To do this, you can create a POS Profile for a user.
To access the POS Profile list, go to:
Home > Retail > Retail Operations > Point-of-Sale Profile
1. How to create a POS Profile 
                                                         1. Go to the Point-of-Sale Profile and click on New.
                                                         2. Enter a name for the profile.
                                                         3. Select a Naming Series.
                                                         4. Set a Write Off Account and Write Off Cost Center to which the transactions will be recorded.
                                                         5. Set up payment modes in the table, the default will be cash if nothing is set here. Only the modes set here will be available when using POS. After adding payment modes, set one of them as the default payment method by ticking the checkbox.
 Payment Method in POS Profile 
                                                         6. Set the default amounts for the payment methods (recommended: 0).
                                                         7. Save.
 POS Profile 
1.1 Additional options when creating a POS Profile 
                                                            * Customer: Users can sell particular products to the particular Customers from the POS by adding item groups, customer groups in the POS Profile.
                                                            * Warehouse: The stock quantities in the selected Warehouse will be affected for POS transactions with this POS Profile.
                                                            * Campaign: A sales Campaign can be linked here to track total sales against it.
                                                            * Company Address: If the POS counter is set up at a Company branch, the address can be selected here.
                                                            * Update Stock: If enabled, the stock quantities will be affected when transactions are performed with the POS Profile. That is, Stock Ledger Entries will be made when you “Submit” this Sales Invoice thereby eliminating the need for a separate Delivery Note.
                                                            * Ignore Pricing Rule: Any active Pricing Rule will be ignored for this POS Profile.
                                                            * Allow Delete: In Offline POS, the data is cached. Ticking this checkbox will allow User to delete the Sales Invoice cached in the Draft stage.
                                                            * Allow user to edit Rate: The POS Profile user will be allowed to edit the 'Rate' of Items added in transactions.
                                                            * Allow user to edit Discount: The POS Profile user will be allowed to edit the 'Discount' of Items added in transactions.
                                                            * Allow Print Before Pay: This will allow the POS User to print an invoice before the payment is made.
                                                            * Display Items In Stock: The remaining quantity of Items from the selected Warehouse will be shown to the POS User.
2. Features 
2.1 Applicable for Users 
By default, all Sales Users can access the POS Profiles created in ERPNext. However, if you want only certain Users to access certain POS Profiles, you can add them to the table. Once even one User is set in the POS Profile, other Users cannot use this POS Profile for retail transactions.
Setting POS Profile as default: On ticking the Default checkbox in the table, the current POS Profile becomes the default POS Profile for that User. So, the next time the User logs into the system, the POS Profile will be set by default.
 POS User 

Note: If you specify a particular User, the POS setting will be applied only to that User. If the User option is left blank, the setting will be set for all users. To understand how POS works, visit the Point of Sale page.
2.2 Setting Item Group and Customer Group 
On setting an Item Group/Customer Group in a POS Profile, the group will be automatically selected when making transactions with the POS Profile.
 Filters in POS Profile 

2.3 Print Settings 
 POS Print Settings 

Print Format for Online 
You can set a Print Format which will decide what the layout of the printed document will look like. To know more, visit the Print Format page.
Letterhead 
You can print your POS Sales Invoice on your Company's letterhead. Know more here.
Print Headings 
POS Sales Invoice headings can also be changed when printing the document. For example, the heading can be 'Invoice', or 'Bill'. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
Terms and Conditions 
There may be certain terms and conditions on the Item you're selling, these can be applied here. To know about adding Terms and Conditions, click here.
2.4 Accounting 
                                                            * Price List: A Price List stores the Item Prices. Setting a Price List here will fetch the Item Prices for the current POS Profile from that Price List.
                                                            * Currency: By default, this will be set according to the Company's default currency. However, you can change it. In case you change the currency, remember to change the accounts too.
                                                            * Taxes and Charges: Selecting a Sales Taxes and Charges Template or Purchase Taxes and Charges Template here will automatically apply the taxes and charges to the POS transaction.
                                                            * Apply Discount On: Here you can set whether the discount is to be applied on the Grand Total (pre tax amount) or the Net Total (post tax amount).
                                                            * Tax Category: On selecting a Tax Category here, the Tax Rules associated with the Tax Category will be applied to each transaction performed from this POS Profile.
The following accounts can be set so that the general ledger is updated accordingly:
                                                            * Account for Change Amount
                                                            * Write Off Account
                                                            * Write Off Cost Center
                                                            * Income Account
                                                            * Expense Account
2.5 Accounting Dimensions 
Accounting Dimensions lets you tag transactions based on a specific Territory, Branch, Customer, etc. This helps in viewing accounting statements separately based on the criteria selected. To know more, visit the Accounting Dimensions page.
Note: Cost Center is treated as a dimension by default.


Point of Sale 
A Point of Sale refers to the time and place where a retail transaction takes place.
For retail operations, the delivery of goods, accrual of sale and payment all happens in one event, that is usually called the 'Point of Sale' (POS).
In ERPNext Sales Invoices can be generated from the POS. There are two steps to set up POS:
To access POS, go to:
Home > Retail > Retail Operations > POS
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using Point of Sale, it is advisable to create the following first:
                                                            1. POS Profile
2. How to create a POS Invoice 
Once you set up a POS profile, you can start billing on POS.
                                                            1. Go to POS and select a Customer.
                                                            2. Add Items from the list displayed on the right by clicking on them.
                                                            3. Ensure that the Item has a Selling Price set in the Item Price list.
                                                            4. Edit the quantities as needed.
                                                            5. In order to edit Rate and Discount, you need to enable them in the POS Profile.
                                                            6. A default Warehouse needs to be set to complete the transaction. If Warehouse is set in both Item and POS profile, the one in POS Profile will be given preference.
                                                            7. Do note that you need to have Items in your Warehouse before you can sell. If Items are not available, a red dot will be shown next to the Item when selected.  POS Screen 
                                                            8. When all Items are added, cross check the net and grand totals and also the total quantity in the summary at the bottom. 
                                                            9. Select the payment mode and click on Complete Order. You'll be asked to submit the Sales Invoice.
                                                            10. You can then print the POS invoice.  POS Checkout 
After the Sales Invoice is submitted, you can either print or email it directly to the customer.
2.2 Adding an Item 
At the billing counter, the retailer needs to select Items which the Customer buys. In the POS interface you can select an Item by two methods. One, is by clicking on the Item image and the other, is through the Barcode / Serial No.
                                                               1. Select Item: To select a product click on the Item image and add it into the cart. A cart is an area that prepares a customer for checkout by allowing to edit product information, adjust taxes and add discounts.
                                                               2. Barcode / Serial No: A Barcode / Serial No is an optical machine-readable representation of data relating to the object to which it is attached.
                                                               3.                                                                  4. Enter Barcode / Serial No in the box as shown in the image below and pause for a second, the item will be automatically added to the cart.
Tip: To change the quantity of an Item, enter your desired quantity in the quantity box. These are mostly used if the same Item is purchased in bulk.
If your product list is very long use the Search field, type the product name in Search box.
2.3 Removing an Item from the Cart 
                                                                  1. Select row in the cart and click on 'Remove' button in the numeric keypad
                                                                  2.  Remove Item From POS                                                                   3. Set Qty as zero to remove Item from the POS invoice. There are two ways to remove an Item.
                                                                  4. If Item's Qty is 1, click on a minus sign to make it zero.
                                                                  5. Manually enter 0 (zero) quantity.
2.4 Change Amount 
POS calculates the extra amount paid by the customer, which user can return from the cash account. User has to set the account for the change amount on the POS profile.
 Change Amount in POS 

3. Features 
3.1 Adding a new Customer 
In POS, user can select the existing Customer during making an order or create a new customer. This feature works in the offline mode also. User can also add the customer details like contact number, address details, etc on the form. The Customer which has been created from the POS will be synced when the internet connection is active.
 Add New Customer in POS 

3.2 Accounting entries (GL Entry) for a Point of Sale: 
Debits:
                                                                     1. Customer (grand total)
                                                                     2. Bank/Cash (payment)
Credits:
                                                                     1. Income (net total, minus taxes for each Item)
                                                                     2. Taxes (liabilities to be paid to the government)
                                                                     3. Customer (payment)
                                                                     4. Write Off (optional)
                                                                     5. Account for Change Amount (optional)
To see entries after submitting the Sales Invoice, click on View Ledger.
3.3 Email 
You can also send the receipt via email.
 Send Email WIth POS Receipt 

3.4 Create Return Credit Note 
You can also create a return credit note against a POS Invoice in case of return of items or the entire order. Below are the steps for issuing a credit note against an invoice:
                                                                     1. Click on menu (3 dots) and then click on Toggle Recent Orders. Keyboard shortcut for the same is ⌘+O. 
                                                                     2. All the invoices from recent POS transactions will be displayed under the Recent Orders pane. You can either search for the invoice directly with its name or filter search results as per the status of the invoice which can be Paid, Consolidated, Draft, Return.
                                                                     3. Select the invoice against which you need to create the credit note after which you will see the invoice details and the options to Print, Email the receipt and an option to make a Return. Click on 'Return'. 
                                                                     4. The POS screen will display the items in the invoice, along with respective negative quantities and totals in the Item Cart which indicates that it is a return credit note. 
                                                                     5. Once you checkout, you'll see the Grand Total, Paid Amount and Taxes too if applicable.
                                                                     6. Clicking on Complete Order will complete the process and create the final return credit invoice and display the bill on the screen like a normal order  POS Return Credit Final Bill 
3.5 POS Closing Voucher 
At the end of the day, the cashier can close his/her PoS by creating a POS Closing Voucher. Click on the Menu and select 'Close the POS'. Select the period, your POS Profile and your user to retrieve all sales registered. At the end of the day, the cashier can close his/her shift by creating a POS Closing Voucher.
Click on the Menu and select 'Close the POS'. Select the period, your POS Profile and your user to retrieve all sales registered.
On creating a POS Closing Voucher, all the POS invoices fetched for the selected period will be consolidated into one final Sales Invoice. The status of all the POS invoices will change from 'Paid' to 'Consolidated' once they are successfully consolidated into a sales invoice on closing.
 POS Closing Entry 

If there are more than 10 invoices while closing a POS, consolidation of the invoices will take place in a background job and would be subitted after the background job gets completed. The Accounting Ledgers would be affected only after the Closing Voucher is submitted successfully and the consolidated sales invoices are created.
POS Invoice Consolidation 
In the version 13 refactor of the Point of Sale, in an effort to add speed to the Point of Sale, the sales from the POS session do not affect the stock and accounting ledgers until a Closing POS Voucher is submitted for that session. It functions like so:
                                                                        1. Each transaction from the POS screen now creates an intermediate invoice (called a POS Invoice) which doesn’t update the stock and accounting ledgers to keep it as fast as possible. This is also called a “sub-ledger”. Separating the POS ledger from the General Ledger makes the system a lot more scalable.
                                                                        2. The stock and accounting entries are now created at the end of day while closing a POS session by a single sales invoice which merges all the intermediate invoices created throughout the day.
                                                                        3. This single consolidated sales invoice only creates 3-4 ledger entries. The older system would create n x 3 ledger entries where ‘n’ is the number of invoices created throughout the day.
                                                                        4. Since drastically fewer ledger entries are made, the load on the general ledger is also eased, making it faster.
How Stock is Tracked Until a POS Session is Closed 
While it is true that the Stock Ledger will disclude transactions from any active POS session, the stock levels from this "sub-ledger" update the Stock Projected Quantity Report.
Stock > Stock Reports > Stock Projected Quantity
 Stock Projected Quantity Report 

In the above image, the "Actual Qty" column represents the value of the stock ledger. The "Reserved for POS Transactions" represents the "Actual Qty" less what quantities are currently reserved because of active POS sessions that have not yet made entries on the Stock Ledger because the sessions have not been closed. Note also that "Projected Qty" ("Active Qty" less quantities reserved for the POS, production, etc.) adds a quantity of 100 to the first line item because of an order for 100 units that has yet to be received.
Within the Point of Sale, however, quantities on order but not received will not be reflected in the "Available Qty at Warehouse" field in the Item Details view. In the instance below, as there's not enough quantity on-hand, the transaction won't be permitted. This applies to any and all open POS sessions active at any time and is applied globally (as in, the transaction from one session affects the quantities available for all other open sessions).
 Available Quanity at Warehouse 

 Item Unavailable 

Accounting Reports 
Some of the major accounting reports are:
1. Company and Accounts 
General Ledger 
Go to: Accounts > Company and Accounts > General Ledger.
The General Ledger is a detailed report for all transactions posted to each account and for every transaction there is a Credit and Debit account so it lists them all up.
The report is based on the table GL Entry and can be filtered by many pre-defined filters like Account, Cost Centers, Party, Project and Period etc. This helps you to get a full update for all entries posted in a period against any account. The result can be grouped by Account, Voucher/Transaction and Party with opening and closing balances for each group. In case of multi-currency accounting, there is also an option to check the amounts in any other currency than company's base currency.
 General Ledger 

2. Accounting Statements 
2.1 Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable (AR / AP) 
Go to: Accounts > Accounting Statements > Accounts Receivable.
These reports help you to track the outstanding amount of Customers and Suppliers. It also provides ageing analysis i.e. a break-up of outstanding amount based on the period for which the amount is outstanding.
 Accounts Receivable 

2.1.1 Accounts Receivables based on Payment terms 
You can also see Accounts Receivables based on Payment Terms.
Accounts Receivable report based on payment terms can be seen by clicking the checkbox 'Based On Payment Terms' as shown in the following screenshot.
 Accounts Receivable Based on Payment Terms 

Outstanding amount against each payment term can be seen. Invoiced Amount shows each payment term amount and Paid Amount shows paid amount against each payment term. Payment against each term is allocated in FIFO order.
 Accounts Receivable 


2.2 Trial Balance 
Go to: Accounts > Accounting Statements > Trial Balance.
A Trial Balance is an accounting report which lists account balances for all your Accounts (“Ledger” and “Group”) for any given reporting period. A company prepares a trial balance periodically, usually at the end of every reporting period. The general purpose of producing a trial balance is to ensure the entries in a company's bookkeeping system are mathematically correct. The totals of Debit and Credit columns must be same for any given period, to ensure the entries are correct. In ERPNext, the report shows following columns:
                                                                        * Opening (Dr): Opening debit balance as on From Date
                                                                        * Opening (Cr): Opening credit balance as on From Date
                                                                        * Debit: Total Debited amount against the account between the selected period
                                                                        * Credit: Total Credited amount against the account between the selected period
                                                                        * Closing (Dr): Closing debit balance as on To Date
                                                                        * Closing (Cr): Closing credit balance as on To Date
There are some other options as well to include or exclude Period Closing Entries, show / hide accounts with zero balance and to show unclosed previous fiscal year's P&L (Income & Expenses) balances. All the figures in the report are shown in company's base currency.
 Trial Balance 

2.3 Balance Sheet 
Go to: Accounts > Accounting Statements > Balance Sheet.
A Balance Sheet is the financial statement of a company which states assets, liabilities and equity at a particular point in time.
The Balance Sheet in ERPNext gives you more flexibility to analyse your financial position. You can run the report across multiple year to compare values. You can check values for a specific Finance Book or Cost Center. You can also choose any other currency to display the balances.
 Balance Sheet 

2.4 Cash Flow Statement 
Go to: Accounts > Accounting Statements > Cash Flow.
A Cash Flow is a financial statement which shows the incoming and outgoing of cash or cash-equivalents for a company. It is used to analyse the liquidity position of the company.
 Cash Flow 

2.5 Profit and Loss Statement 
Go to: Accounts > Accounting Statements > Profit and Loss Statement.
A Profit and Loss Statement is a financial statement which summarizes all the revenues and expenses in a given period. The report is also known as P&L Statement.
In ERPNext, you can run the report across multiple year / period to compare the values. You can also check values for a specific Finance Book, Project or Cost Center. You can also choose any other currency to display the balances. If you are running the report to see quarterly / monthly balances, you can choose whether you want to show accumulated balances or only for each period.
 Profit and Loss Report 

2.6 Consolidated Financial Statements 
Go to: Accounts > Accounting Statements > Consolidated Financial Statement.
The report shows a consolidated view of Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Statement and Cash Flow for a group company, by merging financial statements of all the subsidary companies. It shows balances for all individual company and as well as accumulated balances for a group company.
 Consolidated Financial Statements 

3. Taxes 
3.1 Sales and Purchase Register 
Go to: Accounts > Taxes > Sales Register or Purchase Register.
The Sales and Purchase Register report shows all the Sales and Purchase transactions for a given period with invoiced amount and tax details. In this report, each taxes has a separate column, so you can easily get total taxes collected / paid for a period for each individual tax type, which helps to pay the taxes to government.
 Sales Register 

4. Budget and Cost Center 
4.1 Budget Variance 
Go to: Accounts > Budget and Cost Center > Budget Variance Report.
In ERPNext, you can assign expense budget for an expense account against any specific cost center. This report gives a comparison between budgeted and actual expenses and the variance (the difference between the two) in monthly / quarterly / yearly view.
 Budget Variance 

5. Tax reports for India 
5.1 GSTR-1 (India) 
Go to: Accounts > Goods and Services Tax (GST India) > GSTR-1.
The GSTR-1 report helps Indian users to file monthly return of outward supplies. This report shows all the sales transactions of the company in Govt specified format. The output of the report is changed based on the selected type of business (B2B, B2C Large, B2C Small, CDNR and Export).
 GSTR-1 

5.2 GSTR-2 (India) 
Go to: Accounts > Goods and Services Tax (GST India) > GSTR-2.
The GSTR-2 report helps Indian users to file monthly return of inward supplies. The report gives the details of all inward supplies of goods or services received during a month, in Govt specified format.
 GSTR-2 

6. Analytics 
6.1 Item wise Sales and Purchase Register 
Go to: Accounts > Analytics > Item-wise Sales Register or Item-wise Purchase Register.
The Item Wise Sales and Purchase Register report shows all the Sales and Purchase transactions for a given period with item rate, quantity, amount and tax details. In this report, taxes has a separate column, so you can easily get individual taxes for each individual item. From this report you can have a look of which items are sold or purchase most.
 Item Wise Sales Register 

More detailed analysis can also be done by using the 'Group By' filter which gives sales data for a specific Customer, Supplier, Territory, etc. You can find out which Item is more popular in which region or which Customer is buying which Item more.
 Group By Sales Register 

6.2 Sales or Purchase Invoice Trends 
Go to: Accounts > Analytics > Sales Invoice Trends or Purchase Invoice Trends.
Another very useful report is invoice trends, From this report you can easily get the trending items on monthly, quaterly, half yearly or yearly basis. You will get the idea of sales and purchase both in quantity and amount.
 Sales Invoice Trends 

7. To Bill 
                                                                        * Ordered Items To Be Billed: The report shows the items which has been ordered by customers, against which Sales Invoice has not been created / partially been created.
                                                                        * Delivered Items To Be Billed: The items which has been delivered to the customers, but Sales Invoice has not been created / partially been created.
                                                                        * Purchase Order Items To Be Billed: The report shows the items which has been ordered from the suppliers, but Purchase Invoice has not been created / partially been created.
                                                                        * Received Items To Be Billed: The items which has been received from the suppliers, but Purchase Invoice has not been created / partially been created.
8. Other Reports 
8.1 Party Wise Trial Balance 
Go to: Accounts > Other Reports > Trial Balance for Party. Usually you might need to see the trial balance for your customesrs and suppliers. You can easily get for all of your customers or suppliers and also for individual.
 Trial Balance for Party 

8.2 Customer Credit Balance 
The report shows the credit limit, outstanding and credit balance for each customer.
 Customer Credit Balance 

Share Transfer 
A Share Transfer is the Issue, Transfer, or Purchase of Company shares from one party to another.
There may be times when you want to change the share structure of your Company; either by adding new Shareholders or by changing the existing proportion of shares between Shareholders. A Share Transfer is the process of transferring existing shares from one person to another; either by sale or gift.
When creating a new Shareholder, they need to be issued shares first. Only then a Folio Number is visible and further transfer can be done using that Shareholder.
To access the Share Transfer list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Share Management > Share Transfer
1. How to create a Share Transfer 
                                                                        1. Go to the Share Transfer list and click on New.
                                                                        2. Select the Transfer Type, for first ever Shareholder transaction this will be 'Issue'.
                                                                        3. Set a date for the transfer.
                                                                        4. Select the From and To Shareholders.
                                                                        5. Select the from and to Folio Numbers.
                                                                        6. Set the Liability and Asset accounts.
                                                                        7. Select the share type whether Preference or Equity (more share types can be added if needed).
                                                                        8. Select the number of shares to be transferred.
                                                                        9. Select the From and To number of shares. For example 1 to 3,000.
                                                                        10. Set the rate of one share, the amount will be calculated based on the number of shares.
                                                                        11. Save and Submit.
 Share Transfer 
After submitting, a Journal Entry can be created to update the ledger using the Create Journal Entry button.
Note: Before you can Purchase or Transfer shares between shareholders, shares need to be issued.
1.1 Terminology 
Transfer Types:
                                                                           * Issue: Shares are being issued to an existing Shareholder by the Company.
                                                                           * Purchase: The Company is purchasing back shares from an existing Shareholder.
                                                                           * Transfer: Shares are being transferred from one Shareholder to another.
Folio Number: This is a number used to uniquely identify a Shareholder and their transaction.
Share Type: The two default options in ERPNext are Preference and Equity. This only indicates the type of share, more can be added as per your Company structure.


Share Reports 
There are two types of reports in ERPNext for shares. Share Balance and Share ledger.
1. Share Balance 
This is a report view which gives the list of all the shares held by a given Shareholder and its value.
To access the Share Balance report, go to:
Home > Accounting > Share Management > Share Balance
 Share Balance Report 

2. Share Ledger 
This is a report view which gives the list of all the transactions made by a given Shareholder.
To access the Share Ledger report, go to:
Home > Accounting > Share Management > Share Ledger
 Share Ledger Report 



Shareholder 
A Shareholder is someone who owns shares of a Company.
A Shareholder is any person, company or other institution that owns at least one share of a company’s stock. Because shareholders are a company's owners, they reap the benefits of the company's successes in the form of increased stock valuation. If the company does poorly, shareholders can lose money if the price of company stock declines.
Any profit or loss made by a Company belongs to the Shareholders and hence the Shareholders are a liability to the Company.
ERPNext allows you to keep a track of all your Shareholders and maintain Share Transfers, Share Ledger and Share Balances. A shareholder is uniquely identified by the Shareholder ID. Normally this ID is a Naming Series starting with 'ACC-SH-'. Also as soon as the Shareholder makes even a single transaction, a Folio number is allocated to him. This also is unique to the Shareholder.
To access the Shareholder list, go to:
Home > Accounting > Share Management > Shareholder
1. How to create a Shareholder 
                                                                           1. Go to the Shareholder list and click on New.
                                                                           2. Enter the name of the Shareholder.
                                                                           3. Add Address and Contact details.
                                                                           4. Save.
 Shareholder 
A Shareholder can avail the features (operations) in the Share Transfer process. Only after shares are issued to them, a Folio Number and the shares will be visible.
1.1 Contacts and Addresses 
Contacts and Addresses in ERPNext are stored separately so that you can attach multiple Contacts or Addresses to Shareholders and other parties.


Asset 
In ERPNext, you can maintain fixed asset records for Company assets like computers, furnitures, cars, etc. and manage their depreciations, sale, or disposal. You can track locations of the assets or keep records of employees who are using the asset. You can also manage the maintenance details of the assets.


Asset Reports 
Asset Depreciation Ledger 
This report shows the Purchase Amount, Depreciated Amount and accumulated total depreciation for all the assets under the selected date range. It also shows the current value and current depreciation status of the Asset.
 Asset 

Asset Depreciations and Balances 
This report shows the cost of purchase, selling, and scrapping all assets based on Asset Category. The report also shows the depreciation details based on the selected period and the net value of the asset category.
 Asset 

Fixed Asset Register 
Fixed asset register provides a unified view of all the details regarding current status of an asset. A Fixed asset register tracks all the fixed assets that the you have created. This not only includes assets that are currently in your possession, but also tracks those assets that are disposed.
Types of records based on depreciation:
                                                                              * ** In Location: All the assets that are currently in your possession are under this category.
                                                                              * ** Disposed: All the assets that are currently sold or scrapped come under this category.
 Asset 

Was this article helpful?
Give Feedback
last updated 7 months ago
Asset Value Adjustment 
If the value of an Asset changed suddenly due to any damages, it can be recorded using Asset Value Adjustment.
In case of fixed asset management, sometimes the value of an asset needs some adjustment. For example, if a laptop gets damaged for some reason, and its value will be dropped instantly. And in that case, we have to readjust the value of the asset.
To access the Asset Value Adjustment, go to:
Home > Assets > Maintenance > Asset Value Adjustment
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using Asset Value Adjustment, it is advised to create the following first:
                                                                              1. Asset
                                                                              2. Enable 'Calculate Depreciation' in the Asset form
2. How to create an Asset Value Adjustment 
                                                                              1. Go to the Asset Value Adjustment list, click on New.
                                                                              2. Select an Asset whose value is to be adjusted.
                                                                              3. Select a date.
                                                                              4. Enter the current and new value of the asset.
                                                                              5. Save and Submit.
 Asset 

On saving the system will book a "Gain/Loss on asset revaluation" and adjust the valuation of the asset. You can change the cost center and add a finance book.
On submitting, a Journal Entry is created under the 'Accumulated Depreciations' account.
Asset Category 
An Asset Category classifies different assets of a Company.
The first step towards asset management is creating an Asset Category based on the type of assets. For example, all your desktops and laptops can be part of an Asset Category named "Electronic Equipments".
In Asset Category, you can set default a depreciation method, periodicity and depreciation related accounts, which will apply to all the assets under the category.
Note: You can also set default depreciation-related Accounts and Cost Centers in Company master.
To access the Asset Category list, go to:
Home > Asset > Assets > Asset Category
1. How to create an Asset Category 
                                                                              1. Enter a name for the Asset Category.
                                                                              2. Check 'Enable Capital Work in Progress Accounting' if you want to maintain records of assets under a temporary balance sheet account instead of the corresponding asset account. To know more, visit this page.
                                                                              3. Save.
 Asset Category 
1.1 Additional options when creating an Asset Category 
                                                                                 1. Enable Capital Work in Progress Accounting: On enabling this, accounting entry for assets under this category which are not in use are posted in the Capital Work in Progress accounts. This happens when you own the Asset but it isn't being used yet, i.e. 'Available for Use Date' is set at a later date. If you use all your assets immediately, disable this feature. On disabling this, CWIP accounting will be skipped.
2. Features 
2.1 Finance Book details 
You can link a Finance Book if you report depreciation in different ways. You can enter the following fields:
                                                                                 * Depreciation Method: Choose a depreciated method on which you'll record the depreciation of assets in this category. To know more, visit this page.
                                                                                 * Frequency of Depreciation (Months): The number of months within which the depreciation will be booked. The asset may be scrapped after this period.
                                                                                 * Total Number of Depreciations: The number of deprecations to be booked in the selected time frame.
                                                                                 * Rate of Depreciation: The rate of deprecation applied over the selected period. This will be calculated based on the Depreciation Method selected.
2.2 Accounting Details 
The following account details can be set to record asset values in the ledger:
                                                                                 * Company
                                                                                 * Fixed Asset Account
                                                                                 * Accumulated Depreciation Account
                                                                                 * Depreciation Expense Account
                                                                                 * Capital Work In Progress Account
Assets 
An Asset is any valuable Item owned by a Company.
Furniture, computers, mobile phones, printers, cars, manufacturing equipment are examples of assets. Generally, an asset is a tangible item that is located on the company premises or is carried by an employee. In some cases, an asset could be an intangible item.
An asset's useful life spans across multiple years and hence its economic value is spread over corresponding years from the accounting perspective. If you buy a printer for $300 and it is expected to be useful for three years, from the accounting perspective $100 is recorded as the expense for three years each instead of all the $300 in the first year. Most countries have rules for such calculations.
In ERPNext, the Asset record is the heart of asset management module. All the transactions related to an Asset like purchasing, depreciation, maintenance, movement, scrapping, sales will be recorded against the Asset record.
To access the Asset list, go to:
Home > Assets > Assets > Asset
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using Asset, it is advised to create the following first:
                                                                                 * Item with 'Is Fixed Asset' enabled.
                                                                                 * Asset Category
2. How to create an Asset 
An Item representing the asset should be created. The 'Maintain Stock' should be unchecked and 'Is Fixed Asset' must be checked.
 Asset Item 

2.1 Auto creation of assets 
You can configure ERPNext to automatically create assets on submission of Purchase Receipt by enabling 'Auto Create Assets on Purchase' in Item.
 Asset 

If you have enabled auto asset creation for the item representing an asset, you will have to provide the asset location while submitting the Purchase Receipt.
 Asset Location in Purchase Receipt 

A message confirming the creation of assets is displayed on submission of Purchase Receipt.
 Asset Creation Confirmation Message 

2.2 Manual creation of assets 
If you would like to create assets manually, create an Item with 'Is Fixed Asset' enabled and leave 'Auto Create Assets on Purchase' unchecked . On submission of a Purchase Receipt/Purchase Invoice with that Item a message is shown indicating that you need to create assets manually.
 Manual Creation of Assets 

Follow below steps to create assets manually.
                                                                                 1. Go to the Assets list, click on New.
                                                                                 2. Enter a name for the asset.
                                                                                 3. Select the Item Code. Item Name and Asset Category will be fetched automatically.
                                                                                 4. Select the Asset Owner, i.e. Company, Supplier, or Customer.
                                                                                 5. Select the Company/Supplier/Customer.
                                                                                 6. Select the Purchase Receipt/Purchase Invoice. Purchase Date and Gross Purchase Amount will be fetched automatically.
                                                                                 7. Select a Location. Eg: Mumbai Office. This will be fetched automatically if specified in Purchase Receipt items table
                                                                                 8. Set Available-for-use Date. The depreciation will be calculated starting from this date.
                                                                                 9. Save and Submit.
Please note you need create one asset record for each asset you have bought. If you have bought five computers and have created just one Purchase Receipt with quantity set to five then you will have to create five asset records manually.
2.3 Importing existing assets 
When you move from a legacy system to ERPNext, you will have to add details of all the assets your company has purchased previously along with depreciation details of each asset.
For an existing asset, you can create the asset record directly by checking "Is Existing Asset" checkbox and provide below details.
                                                                                 * Gross Purchase Amount
                                                                                 * Purchase Date
                                                                                 * Available-for-use Date
                                                                                 * Opening Accumulated Depreciation: The accumulated depreciation amount which has already been booked for an existing asset.
                                                                                 * Number of Depreciations Booked: Number of depreciation entries already booked.
Based on these details the schedule for depreciation of remaining amount will be created automatically.
 Existing Asset 

To know more, visit the Purchasing an Asset page.
2.4 Additional options when creating an Asset 
                                                                                 1. Custodian: The employee who will carry the asset.
                                                                                 2. Department: The department of the Custodian.
                                                                                 3. Next Depreciation Date: Mention the next depreciation date, even if it is the first one. If the asset is an existing one and depreciation has already been completed, leave it blank.
                                                                                 4. Calculate Depreciation: Enable this checkbox to calculate depreciation of Assets.
                                                                                 5. Allow Monthly Depreciation: Enable this checkbox to distribute depreciation amount of an asset into 12 months of the year. Depreciation entries will be made every month on the date provided as Depreciation Start Date. For example, if Available for Use date is 22nd Nov 2019 and depreciation Start Date is 31st March 2020, first depreciation will be done on 30th Nov 2019 second on 31st Dec 2019 and so on. Amount will be distributed based on days left until next depreciation.
4. Features 
4.1 Depreciation 
                                                                                 * Frequency of Depreciation (Months): The number of months between depreciations.
                                                                                 * Total Number of Depreciations: The total number of depreciations during the useful life of the Asset. In case of existing assets which are partially depreciated, mention the number of pending depreciations. For example, if you set frequency as 12 months and no. of depreciations as 3, 1 depreciation will be booked every 12 months for 3 years.
                                                                                 * Depreciation Method: These are three methods used for depreciation :
                                                                                 * Straight Line: This method spreads the cost of the fixed asset evenly over its useful life.
                                                                                 * Double Declining Method: An accelerated method of depreciation, it results in higher depreciation expense in the earlier years of ownership.
                                                                                 * Written Down Value: In this method, the depreciation percentage is fixed but it is applied on the current value of the asset which we get after each depreciation. To know about Asset Depreciation in detail, visit this page.
                                                                                 * Depreciation Start Date: The date from which booking of depreciation will be started.
                                                                                 * Expected Value After Useful Life: Useful Life is the time period over in which the company expects that the asset will be productive. After that period, either the asset is scrapped or sold. In case it is sold, mention the estimated value here. This value is also known as Salvage Value, Scrap Value, or Residual Value.
                                                                                 * Rate of Depreciation: This will be calculated based on the amount entered in expected value after useful life.
4.2 Depreciation Schedule 
On booking depreciations against this Asset, the Depreciation Schedule section will be visible. This table has columns for Finance Book, Schedule Date, Depreciation Amount, Amount Depreciated, and Journal Entry.
 Depreciation Schedule 

Note: The Finance Book column will only be visible if Enable Finance Book is checked in the Company Master. For more details, click here.
4.3 Insurance Details 
If Insurance has been taken for the Asset you're recording, you can store the following Insurance details:
                                                                                 * Policy number
                                                                                 * Insurer
                                                                                 * Insured value
                                                                                 * Insurance Start Date
                                                                                 * Insurance End Date
                                                                                 * Comprehensive Insurance
4.4 Accounting Entries 
On submission of an asset, "Capital Work in Progress" account will be credited and the asset account related to the asset will be debited. Submission is only possible after entering "Available-to-use Date". If "Available-to-use Date" is a future date, then accounting entry will be booked automatically on that date via the scheduler.
4.5 Maintenance 
Ticking on Maintenance Required allows recording Asset Maintenance entries for this Asset. To know more, visit the Asset Maintenance page.
4.6 After Submitting 
Once you create an Asset, you'll see options to transfer, scrap, or sell the asset. From the Make button, you can adjust its value and make a depreciation entry.
 Asset Submit 



Asset Location 
Asset Location shows where an Asset is located.
The assets that your organization owns can be located at various facilities like administrative offices, manufacturing plants, warehouses, etc. In ERPNext you can create a 'Location' for each of your facilities and track the assets which are present in these locations.
You can also add Latitude and Longitude of the location. When an asset is moved from one location to another, you need to create an Asset Movement record.
Map of the location is also shown:
 Asset 

Selling an Asset 
To sell an asset, open the asset record and clicking on the Sell Asset button. This will take you to a Sales Invoice. In the Sales Invoice, enter details like Customer and Payment Due Date.
On submission of the Sales Invoice, following accounting entries will take place:
                                                                                 * "Receivable Account" (Debtors) will be debited by the sales amount.
                                                                                 * "Fixed Asset Account" will be credited by the purchase amount of asset.
                                                                                 * "Accumulated Depreciation Account" will be debited by the total depreciated amount till now.
                                                                                 * "Gain/Loss Account on Asset Disposal" will be credited/debited based on gain/loss amount. The Gain/Loss account can be set in Company record.
 Asset 



Asset Movement 
The Asset Movement feature lets you do the following:
                                                                                 * Move an asset from one location to another location (Transfer)
                                                                                 * Move an asset from one location to an employee (Issue)
                                                                                 * Move an asset from one employee to another employee (Issue)
                                                                                 * Move an asset from an employee to a location (Receipt)
To access the Asset Movement list, go to:
Home > Assets > Assets > Asset Movement
 Move Multiple Assets 

How to create an Asset Movement 
                                                                                 1. Go to the Asset Movement list, click on New.
                                                                                 2. Select the Purpose from Transfer, Issue or Receipt. Mandatory fields will be changed based on purpose.
                                                                                 3. Select a date.
                                                                                 4. Select Assets you want to move. Current Location / Custodian will be automatically fetched.
                                                                                 5. Select Reference Document Type (Optional).
                                                                                 6. Select Reference Document Name (Optional).
                                                                                 7. Save.
                                                                                 8. Submit.
To make an Asset Movement of a number of assets, it is advised to go to Asset List, select assets to be moved and click on Make Asset Movement from Actions menu on the top left.
 Move Multiple Assets 

There is also a Transfer Asset option in the Manage dropdown on the top right of the Asset form to initiate Asset Movement. It auto fills available fields from Asset Form.
 Move Single Asset 

Purchasing an Asset 
For purchasing a new asset:
                                                                                 1. Create an Asset Category
                                                                                 2. Create a related Item with 'Is Fixed Asset' enabled for creating the asset.
                                                                                 3. You may also enable 'Auto Create Assets on Purchase' for creating assets automatically. (Optional)
 Purchasing Asset 
                                                                                 4. Then, the purchase cycle should be followed for purchasing an asset.
                                                                                 5. Enter the Asset Location in the Items table of the Purchase Receipt or Purchase Invoice through which you are receiving the item.
                                                                                 6. On submission of a Purchase Receipt, based on auto creation checkbox, Asset records will be created automatically. You can then enter other details of the Asset manually from the Asset form.
 Purchasing Asset 

Following accounting entries will be posted on submission of the Receipt entry if Capital Work In Progress Accounting is enabled in the Asset Category of the purchased asset.
 Asset 

It is noticeable here that, instead of corresponding asset account, Capital Work in Progress (CWIP) has been debited. This is because the asset has only been purchased and it is still not available for use. Until the asset is available for use, the asset value is maintained against this account. On the day when it is available for use, the CWIP account gets credited and corresponding asset account gets debited.
In case of disabled 'Capital Work In Progress Accounting' in the Asset Category, the receipt entry will be made against corresponding asset accounts set in the Asset Category.
ERPNext also uses a temporary account "Asset Received But Not Billed" (a liability account) which gets credited on submission of Purchase Receipt entry. Later, on submission of Purchase Invoice, this account gets debited/reversed.


Introduction 
Businesses have a large part of their financial resources invested in the stock items they trade. With ERPNext, you can always keep a bird's eye view on your stock availability, replenishment, procurement, sales, and much more.
1. Core Stock Transactions 
There are three main types of entries:
                                                                                    * Purchase Receipt: Items received from Suppliers against Purchase Orders.
                                                                                    * Stock Entry: Items transferred from one Warehouse to another.
                                                                                    * Delivery Note: Items shipped to Customers.
Apart from these core transactions, there are other documents available in ERPNext Stock module to manage Stock Reconciliation, Item Prices, deliveries, serial numbers, batch numbers, quality inspections, returns, etc.
Here's a view of Item Stock Summary in ERPNext.
 ERPNext Stock 



Warehouse 
A warehouse is a commercial building for storage of goods. Warehouses are used by manufacturers, importers, exporters, wholesalers, transport businesses, customs, etc.
They are usually large plain buildings in industrial areas of cities, towns, and villages. They mostly have loading docks to load and unload goods from trucks.
The terminology of 'Warehouse' in ERPNext is a bit broader though and maybe can be regarded as "storage locations". You can create a sub-Warehouse which could be a shelf inside your actual location.
This can become quite a detailed Tree like the following:
Warehouse > Room > Row > Shelf > Bin
To access the Warehouse list, go to:
Home > Stock > Settings > Warehouse
1. How to create a Warehouse 
                                                                                    1. Go to the Warehouse list, click on New.
                                                                                    2. Enter a name for the Warehouse.
                                                                                    3. Set/check the Parent Warehouse. If you tick on 'Is Group', you can create sub-Warehouses under this group Warehouse.
                                                                                    4. Save.
Warehouses are saved with their respective Company’s abbreviations. This facilitates identifying which Warehouse belongs to which company at a glance.
1.1 Additional options when creating a Warehouse 
Account: Set a default account here for all transactions with this Warehouse. Setting this account will show transactions from this Warehouse in the Accounting Ledger. Warehouse Type: You can create a Warehouse Type to classify Warehouses. For example, Supplier Warehouses, Stock Warehouses, WIP Warehouses, Rooms, etc. can be tagged. This classification is useful when generating reports or in certain stock transactions.
Address and contact 
You can add Billing, Shipping, and other types of addresses for the Warehouse. You can also add a contact, this could be the Warehouse Manager for example.
 Warehouse 

1.2 After Saving 
After saving a Warehouse, you'll see the following options:
                                                                                    * Stock Balance: This will open the Stock Balance report to display the quantity, valuation, balance, etc.
                                                                                    * General Ledger: This will open the General Ledger to display the accounting transactions.
                                                                                    * Non-Group to Group: If the Warehouse is a Non-Group Warehouse, i.e. cannot contain other Warehouses under it, this button will make this a Group Warehouse.
2. Features 
2.1 Tree View 
You can also switch to 'Tree' View which will show all the group and child Warehouses.
 Warehouse 

2.2 Warehouse Account 
In ERPNext, if you enable Perpetual Inventory, every Warehouse must belong to a specific company to maintain company-wise stock balance. To do so, each Warehouse should be linked with an Account in the Chart of Accounts (the same name as the Warehouse itself). This account captures the monetary equivalent of the goods or materials stored in that specific warehouse.
If you have a more detailed Warehouse Tree, most likely it's a good idea to link the sub-locations (room, row, shelf, etc.) to the account of the actual Warehouse (the root Warehouse of that Tree) as most scenarios do not require to account for value of stock items per Shelf or Bin. For example, if you have Warehouse A, and the room, rows are B, C, etc., then link B and C to the account of A.
Tip: ERPNext maintains stock balance for every distinct combination of Item and Warehouse. Thus you can get the stock balance for any specific Item in a particular Warehouse on any particular date.
Item 
An Item is a product or a service offered by your company.
The term Item is also applicable to raw materials or components of products yet to be produced (before they can be sold to customers). ERPNext allows you to manage all sorts of items like raw-materials, sub-assemblies, finished goods, item variants, and service items.
ERPNext is optimized for itemized management of your sales and purchase. If you are in services, you can create an Item for each service that you offer. Completing the Item Master is very essential for the successful implementation of ERPNext.
To access the Item list, go to:
Home > Stock > Items and Pricing > Item
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using an Item, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                    * Item Group
                                                                                    * Warehouse
                                                                                    * A Unit of Measure if required
2. How to create an Item 
                                                                                    1. Go to the Item list, click on new.
                                                                                    2. Enter an Item Code, the name will be auto-filled the same as Item Code on clicking inside the Item Name field.
                                                                                    3. Select an Item Group.
                                                                                    4. Enter the opening stock units and standard selling rate.
                                                                                    5. Save.  Item Saved 
2.1 Item Properties 
                                                                                       * Item Name: Item name is the actual name of your product or service.
                                                                                       * Item Code: Item Code is a short-form to denote your Item. If you have very few Items, it is advisable to keep the Item Name and the Item Code same. This helps new users to recognize and update Item details in all transactions. In case you have a lot of Items with long names and the list runs in hundreds, it is advisable to code. To understand naming Item codes see Item Codification. You can also generate Item Code based on a Naming Series by enabling this feature in Stock Settings.
                                                                                       * Item Group: Item Group is used to categorize an Item under various criteria like products, raw materials, services, sub-assemblies, consumables or all Item groups. Create your default Item Group list under Setup > Item Group and pre-select the option while filling your New Item details under Item Group. Item groups can be sub-assemblies, raw materials, etc, or based on your business use case.
                                                                                       * Default Unit of Measure: This is the default measuring unit that you will use for your product. It could be Nos, Kgs, Meters, etc. You can store all the UOMs that your product will require under Set Up> Master Data > UOM. These can be preselected while filling New Item by using % sign to get a pop up of the UOM list. Visit the UoM page for more details
2.2 Options when creating an item 
                                                                                       * Disabled: If you disable an Item, it cannot be selected in any transaction.
                                                                                       * Allow Alternative Item: Sometimes when manufacturing a finished good, specific material may not be available. If you tick this, you can create and select an alternative item from the Item Alternative list. To know more, visit the Item Alternative page.
                                                                                       * Maintain Stock: If you are maintaining stock of this Item in your Inventory, ERPNext will make a stock ledger entry for each transaction of this item. Ensure to keep this option unchecked when creating a non-stock Item (make to order/engineer) or a service.
                                                                                       * Include Item in Manufacturing: This is for raw material Items that'll be used to create finished goods. If the Item is an additional service like 'washing' that'll be used in the BOM, keep this unchecked.
                                                                                       * Valuation Rate: There are two options to maintain valuation of stock. FIFO (first in - first out) and Moving Average. To understand this topic in detail please visit Item Valuation, FIFO and Moving Average.
                                                                                       * Standard Selling Rate: When creating an Item, entering a value for this field will automatically create an Item Price at the backend. Entering a value after the Item has been saved will not work. In this case, the Item Price is created from any transactions with the Item. The rate at which you'll sell the item. This will be fetched in Sales Orders and Sales Invoices.
                                                                                       * Is Fixed Asset: Tick this checkbox if this item is a company Asset. Check out the Asset Module to know more.
                                                                                       * Auto Create Assets on Purchase: If Item is a Company Asset, tick this checkbox if you want to auto create assets while purchasing this item through Purchase Cycle. Check out the Asset Page to know more.
                                                                                       * Allowance Percentage: This option will be available only when you create and save the item. This is the percent by which you will be allowed to over-bill or over-deliver this Item. If not set, it will select from Stock Settings.
                                                                                       * Uploading an Image: To upload an image for your icon that will appear in all transactions, save the partially filled form. Only after your file is saved the 'Change' button will appear on the Image icon. Click on Change, then click on Upload, and upload the image.
For India:
                                                                                       * HSN/SAC: Harmonized System of Nomenclature (HSN) and Service Accounting Code (SAC) for GST. These numbers are defined by the government and different Items fall under different codes. New HSN codes can be added if not present in the list.
                                                                                       * Is nil rated or exempted: For an Item that is under GST, but no tax is applied to it. Eg: Cereals.
                                                                                       * Is Non GST: For an item that is not covered under GST. Eg: petrol.
3. Features 
3.1 Brand and Description 
                                                                                       * Brand: If you have more than one brand save them under Selling > Brand and pre-select them while filling a New Item.
                                                                                       * Description: Description of the item. The text from the Item Code will be fetched by default.  Item brand and description 
3.2 Barcodes 
Barcodes can be recorded in Items to quickly scan and add them in transactions. In the Barcodes table you can add an Item's barcode for scanning. There are two types of barcodes in ERPNext:
                                                                                          * EAN: The European Article Number is a 13 digit number. EAN is used internationally and recognized by more POS systems.
                                                                                          * UPC: The Universal Product Code is a 12 digit number. UPC is generally used only in USA and Canada.
3.3 Inventory 
                                                                                          * Shelf Life In Days: This is for a product Batch. The number of days after which product batch will be unusable. For example, medicines.
                                                                                          * End of Life: For a single item/product, the date after which it'll be completely unusable. That is, the item will be unusable in transactions and manufacturing. For example, you're using plastic crystals for manufacturing Items for the next 5 years after which you want to use plastic beads.
                                                                                          * Warranty: To track a warranty period, it is necessary that the Item is serialized. When this Item is delivered, the delivery date and the expiry period is saved in the Serial Number master. Through the serial number master, you can track the warranty status.
A warranty period is a time period in which a purchased product may be returned or exchanged.
 Item Warranty 
                                                                                          * Weight UOM: The Unit of Measure for the item. This can be Nos, Kilo, etc. The Weight UoM which you use internally can be different from the purchase UoM.
                                                                                          * Weight Per Unit: The actual weight per unit of the item. Eg: 1 kilo biscuits or 10 biscuits per pack.
                                                                                          * Default Material Request Type: When you create a new Material Request for this item, the field set here will be selected by default in the new Material Request. This is also known as an 'indent'.
                                                                                          * Valuation Method: Select the Valuation Method whether FIFO or Moving Average. Read Item Valuation methods to know more.
3.4 Automatic Reordering 
When the stock of an item dips under a certain quantity, you can set an automatic reorder under 'Auto Reorder' section. This should be enabled in Stock Settings. This will raise a Material Request for the Item. The user with roles Purchase Manager and Stock Manager will be notified when the Material Request is created.
                                                                                             * Check in (group): In which group warehouses to check the quantity of the item.
                                                                                             * Request for: Which warehouse to stock the item reorder.
                                                                                             * Re-order Level: When this quantity is reached, the reorder will be triggered. Re-order level can be determined based on the lead time and the average daily consumption. For example, you can set the reorder level of Motherboard at 10. When only 10 Motherboards are remaining in stock, the system will either automatically create a Material Request in your ERPNext account.
                                                                                             * Re-order Qty: The number of units to be reordered so that the sum of ordering cost and holding cost is at its minimum. The re-order quantity is based on the 'Minimum Order Qty' specified by the supplier and many other factors.
For example, If reorder level is 100 items, your reorder quantity may not necessarily be 100 items. The Reorder quantity can be greater than or equal to the reorder level. It may depend upon lead time, discount, transportation and average daily consumption.
                                                                                             * Material Request Type: The Material Request type with which the stock will be reordered. This depends whether you buy the Item, manufacture it yourself or transfer it between Warehouses.
 Item Reorder 
Note: The Material Request is created at 12 midnight depending on the set reorder level.
3.5 Multiple Units of Measure 
You can add alternate UoMs for an Item. If the default UoM in which you sell is numbers (NoS) but you receive it in Kilos, you can set an additional UoM with an appropriate conversion factor. For example, 500 Nos of screws = 1 Kilogram, so select Kilogram/Litre as UOM and set the conversion factor as 500. To know more about selling in different UoM, visit this page.
3.6 Serial Numbers 
With Serial Numbers, you can track warranty and returns. In case any individual Item is recalled by the supplier the number system helps to track individual Item. The numbering system also manages expiry dates.
Please note that if you sell your items in thousands, and if the items are very small like pens or erasers, you need not serialize them.
In ERPNext, you will have to mention the Serial Number in some accounting entries. If your product is not a big consumer durable Item, if it has no warranty and has no chances of being recalled, avoid giving serial numbers.
 Serial No modal 

3.7 Batches 
A set of Items can be manufactured in batches. This is useful for moving the batch and associate an expiry date with a certain batch.
                                                                                                * Has Batch No: Options for batch number, expiry date, and retaining sample stock will be revealed on ticking this checkbox. You cannot activate this if there is any pre-existing transaction for this item. If this is disabled, you'll have to enter the serial numbers manually for every transaction.
                                                                                                * Batch Number Series: Prefix that'll be applied to batch numbers. If you set 5x1SCR, then the first batch will be named like 5x1SCR00001 on first transaction/manufacture.
                                                                                                * Automatically Create New Batch: If the batch number is not mentioned in transactions, then they will be automatically created according to a format like AAAA.00001. If you always want to manually create a batch number for this item, leave this field blank. This setting will override 'Naming Series Prefix' in Stock Settings. Batch numbers can be set to be generated automatically if you manufacture the Items or can be entered manually if it comes from an external manufacturer.
                                                                                                * Has Expiry Date: If you tick this, the batch number will be created according to the expiry date. The expiry dates can be set in the 'Batch' master.
                                                                                                * Retain Sample: To retain a minimum number of sample stock of the item. You need to set a Sample Retention Warehouse in Stock Settings for this. To know more, click here.
                                                                                                * Has Serial No: This is similar to Batch Number Series, it'll be created when you make transactions/manufacture. If you set Serial Number Series as AA, then on the first transaction a serial number like AA00001 will be created.
Tip: While entering an Item Code in an Items table, if the table requires inventory details, then depending on whether the entered item is batched or serialized, you can enter serial or batch numbers right away in a pop-up dialog.
 Batch No modal 

Note: Once you mark an item as serialized or batched or neither, you cannot change it after you have made a Stock Entry.
To know more, visit the Stock Reconciliation page.
3.8 Variants 
An Item Variant is a different version of a Item. To learn more about managing variants see Item Variants.
3.9 Item Defaults 
In this section, you can define Company-wide transaction-related defaults for this Item.
                                                                                                * Default Warehouse: This is the Warehouse that is automatically selected in your transactions with this item.
                                                                                                * Default Price List: Whether Standard Selling or Standard Buying. Likewise, you can also set the purchasing and selling default accounts
                                                                                                * Supplier: If a default supplier is set, this supplier will be selected for new purchase transactions.
                                                                                                * Default Expense Account: It is the account in which cost of the Item will be debited.
                                                                                                * Default Income Account: It is the account in which income from selling the Item will be credited.
                                                                                                * Default Cost Center: It is used for tracking expense for this Item.
 Item defaults 
Tip: You can add more rows for multiple companies.
3.10 Purchase, Replenishment Details 
                                                                                                   * Default Purchase Unit of Measure: The default UoM that will be used in Purchase transactions.
                                                                                                   * Minimum Order Qty: The minimum quantity required for purchase transactions like Purchase Orders. If set, the system will not let you proceed with the purchase transaction if the item quantity in the purchase transaction is lesser than the quantity set in this field.
                                                                                                   * Safety Stock: “Safety Stock” is used in the report “Itemwise Recommended Reorder Level”. Based on Safety Stock, average daily consumption and the lead time, the system suggests Reorder Level of an item.
Reorder Level = Safety Stock + (Average Daily Consumption * Lead Time)
                                                                                                   * Last Purchase Rate: The rate at which you last purchased this item using a Purchase Invoice will be displayed here.
                                                                                                   * Is Purchase Item: If unticked, you won't be able to use this item in purchase transactions.
                                                                                                   * Is Customer Provided Item: Checked if Item is provided by a customer and received through Stock Entry > Material Receipt. If Checked, Customer field is Mandatory as the default customer for Material Request. To know more visit this page.
                                                                                                   * Lead time days: Lead time days are the number of days between ordering the Item and it to reach the Warehouse.
 Purchase details 
3.11 Supplier Details 
                                                                                                      * Delivered by Supplier (Drop Ship): If the item is delivered directly by the supplier to the customer, tick this checkbox. Read more here.
                                                                                                      * Supplier Codes: Track Item Code defined by the Suppliers for this Item. In the Purchase transactions, on selecting an Item, a Supplier Part No. will be fetched as well for the Supplier's reference. You can read more about it here.
 Item Supplier Details 
3.12 Foreign Trade Details 
If you're sourcing the item from another country, you can set the details here.
                                                                                                         * Country of Origin: The country from which you're sourcing the item.
                                                                                                         * Customs Tariff Number: You can create a customs tariff number with a description and use it for reference here to share with custom agencies. Later it can be used to add in Delivery Notes.
3.13 Sales Details 
                                                                                                         * Grant Commission: Grant a commission to Sales Person and Sales Partner when this item is sold. If disabled, the sales generated by this item will be ignored in the calculation of commission.
                                                                                                         * Default Sales Unit of Measure: The default UoM that'll be fetched for sales transactions.
                                                                                                         * Max Discount (%): You can define the maximum discount in % to be applied to an item. Eg: if you set 20%, you cannot sell this item with a discount greater than 20%.
                                                                                                         * Is Sales Item: If unticked, you won't be able to use this item in sales transactions.
 Item Sales Details 
3.14 Deferred Revenue and Deferred Expense 
You can enable deferred revenue or expense from the item. Once you tick the checkbox, you'll see options to set the Deferred Expense Account and the number of months through which the revenue/expense is deferred.
For example, consider a yearly gym membership, you pay the money upfront at once but the service is given throughout the year. For the gym owner, this is deferred revenue and for the customer, it is a deferred expense.
 Deferred Revenue 

Check out the pages on Deferred Revenue for more details.
3.15 Customer Details 
The Customer may identify an Item with a different Item Code. this is Similar to Supplier Code.
                                                                                                            * Customer Name: Select a customer here.
                                                                                                            * Customer Group: This will be fetched based on the Customer you selected in the previous field.
                                                                                                            * Ref Code: A customer can identify this item with a different number. You can track Item Code assigned by the Customer for this Item. When you create a Sales Order, the Customer's Reference Code for this Item will be shown.
3.16 Item Tax 
These settings are required only if a particular Item has a different tax rate than the rate defined in the standard tax Account.
You need to create a new 'Item Tax Template' or choose an existing one. For example, if you have a tax Account, “VAT 14%” and this particular Item is exempted from tax, then you select “VAT 14%” in the first column, and set “0” as the tax rate in the second column. Visit the Item Tax Template page for more details.
 Item tax template 

You can also set a Tax Category for this Item.
3.17 Inspection Criteria 
                                                                                                            * Inspection Required before Purchase: If an inspection is mandatory before the item is purchased, i.e., before you generate Purchase Receipt, tick this checkbox.
                                                                                                            * Inspection Required before Delivery: If an inspection is required at the time of delivery from your Supplier is mandatory for this Item, tick this checkbox. That is, before you generate a Delivery Note.
                                                                                                            * Quality Inspection Template: If a Quality Inspection is prepared for this Item, then this template of criteria will automatically be updated in the Quality Inspection table of the Quality Inspection. Examples of Criteria are: Weight, Length, Finish, etc.
                                                                                                            * Quality Inspection can be done with Quick View and you need not go to a different page to update the details inspection in ERPNext.
Read Quality Inspection to know more.
3.18 Manufacturing 
                                                                                                            * Default BOM: The default Bill of Materials used to manufacture this Item.
                                                                                                            * Supply Raw Materials for Purchase: If you're subcontracting to a vendor, you can choose to provide them with the raw materials to manufacture the item using the default BOM.
                                                                                                            * Manufacturer: Select the Manufacturer who manufactured this item.
                                                                                                            * Manufacturer Part Number: Enter the manufacturer part number that the manufacturer has assigned to this item.
 Item Manufacturing 
                                                                                                            * The manufacturer details appear after you've created an 'Item Manufacturer' from the dashboard and selected that record as default. Here, add details for:
                                                                                                               * Item Code
                                                                                                               * Enter the manufacturer name
                                                                                                               * Enter the part number the manufacturer uses to identify this item
                                                                                                               * Select 'Is Default' to show the manufacturer and part number in the Item record
                                                                                                               *  Item Manufacturer 3.19 Website 
                                                                                                                  * Show in Website: Choose if you want to show this Item on your website. Once you tick this, additional options will be visible to configure the item on your website. To view the item on the website click on the 'See on Website' link on the top left just above the item image. Visit the Website module to know more.
 Manufaturing details 
                                                                                                                  * Weightage: Items with higher weight will be displayed first on the website. The limit for the number you can enter here is very high.
                                                                                                                  * Slideshow: A slideshow can be displayed at the top of the page. Visit the Homepage page in Website module to know more.
                                                                                                                  * Image: You can attach an image instead of a Slideshow.
                                                                                                                  * Website Warehouse: Select an existing or create a new warehouse for transactions via your website. This Warehouse will be different from your offline Warehouses. Stock for any online transactions will be deducted from the Warehouses set under Website Warehouse.
                                                                                                                  * Website Item Groups: In this table you can select existing or create new Item Groups to classify items on your website.
                                                                                                                  * Set Meta Tags: Meta tags help with SEO. See Web Page to know how to add them.
Visit Manufacturing and Website to understand these topics in detail.
3.20 Website Specifications 
This section is for configuring other details about the item.
                                                                                                                     * Copy from Item Group: The 'Website Specifications' details will be fetched as set in a specific Item Group chosen on the previous section (2.17).
                                                                                                                     * Website Specifications: Label and its description for the item. For example, 'Warranty: 1 year'.
                                                                                                                     * Website Description: This will appear on the item page.
                                                                                                                     * Website Content: (Introduced in v12) You can create additional styling, etc., use Bootstrap 4 markup to display on the item page.
3.21 Hub Publishing Details 
The hub is a free online marketplace where Suppliers and Customers can transact. If both parties are on ERPNext, the transactions happen seamlessly. You can visit the hub at: https://hubmarket.org.
                                                                                                                     * Publish in Hub: Choose if you want to publish your item on https://hubmarket.org/. It is a free marketplace. If your supplier/customer is also on ERPNext, the transactions will be seamless. For example, on creating a Purchase Order from your end, a Sales Order will be created on the Supplier's end.
                                                                                                                     * Hub Warehouse: This is a separate Warehouse to maintain the stock for your hub transactions.
                                                                                                                     * Synced With Hub: Sync item and other details with the hub when transactions take place.
                                                                                                                     * Opening Stock 
Opening Stock is the amount and value of materials that a company has available for sale or use at the beginning of an accounting period.
The closing Stock of the previous accounting period becomes the opening Stock of the current accounting period.
1. Prerequisites 
                                                                                                                     * Create Warehouses.
                                                                                                                     * Link Warehouse to appropriate accounting ledgers.
2. Opening Stock for Non-serialized Items 
To post opening stock visit the Stock Reconciliation page.
3. Opening Stock for Serialized and Batched Items 
Create the Batch and Serial No records beforehand. To post opening stock for serialized and batched items:
                                                                                                                     1. Go to Stock > Stock Transactions > Stock Entry > New.
                                                                                                                     2. Select 'Material Receipt' in 'Stock Entry Type'.
                                                                                                                     3. Select the Warehouse in 'Default Target Warehouse'.
                                                                                                                     4. In Items table select Item Code, Qty and Basic rate.
                                                                                                                     5. For batched items select Batch No.
                                                                                                                     6. For serialized items select Serial No.
                                                                                                                     7. Save and Submit.
                                                                                                                     8. Accounting Of Inventory Stock 
The value of available inventory is treated as a Current Asset in the company's Chart of Accounts. To prepare a Balance Sheet, you should make the accounting entries for those assets. There are generally two different methods of accounting for inventory.
1. Auto/Perpetual Inventory 
In this process, for each stock transaction, the system posts relevant accounting entries to sync stock balance and accounting balance. This is the default setting in ERPNext for new accounts. By default, Perpetual Inventory is enabled in the Company.
When you buy and receive items, those items are booked as the company’s assets (stock-in-hand). When you sell and deliver those items, an expense (Cost of Goods Sold) equal to the landed cost of the items is booked. General Ledger entries are created after every stock transaction. As a result, the value as per Stock Ledger always remains the same with the relevant account balance. This improves the accuracy of the Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss statement.
Read Perpetual Inventory documentation to check accounting entries for a particular stock transaction.
1.2 Advantages of Perpetual Inventory 
Perpetual Inventory system will make it easier for you to maintain the accuracy of the company's asset and expense values. Stock balances will always be synced with relevant account balances, so no more periodic manual entry needs to be done to balance them.
In case of new back-dated stock transactions or cancellation/amendment of an existing transaction, all the future Stock Ledger entries and GL Entries will be recalculated for all items of that transaction. The same is applicable if any cost is added to the submitted Purchase Receipt later through the Landed Cost Voucher.
Note: Perpetual Inventory completely depends upon the item valuation rate. Hence, you have to be more careful entering the valuation rate while making any incoming stock transactions like Purchase Receipt, Material Receipt, or Manufacturing/Repack.
________________


2. Periodic Inventory 
In this method, accounting entries need to be created manually in order to sync stock balance and relevant account balance. The system does not create accounting entries automatically for assets at the time of material purchases or sales.
In an accounting period, when you buy and receive items, an expense is booked in your accounting system. You sell and deliver some of these items.
At the end of an accounting period, the total value of items to be sold, need to be booked as the company’s assets, often known as stock-in-hand.
The difference between the value of the items remaining to be sold and the previous period’s stock-in-hand value can be positive or negative. If positive, this value is removed from expenses (Cost of Goods Sold) and is added to assets (stock-in-hand). If negative, a reverse entry is passed.
This complete process is called Periodic Inventory.
If you are an existing user using Periodic Inventory and want to use Perpetual Inventory, you need to follow a few steps to migrate.


Price Lists 
A Price List is a collection of Item Prices either Selling, Buying, or both.
ERPNext lets you maintain multiple Selling and Buying Item Prices using Price Lists.
Price Lists can be used in scenarios where you have different prices for different zones (based on the shipping costs), for different currencies, etc. An Item can have multiple prices based on customer, currency, region, shipping cost, etc, which can be stored as different rate plans.
In ERPNext, all the Item Prices are stored separately. Buying Price for an item is different from Selling Price and thus they're stored separately.
To access a Price List go to:
Home > Selling/Buying/Stock > Items and Pricing > Price List
 Price List 

1. How to use a Price List 
                                                                                                                     * Price Lists will be used when creating an Item Prices to track selling or buying price of an item.
                                                                                                                     * Specific countries can be assigned in the Price List.
                                                                                                                     * To disable specific Price List, untick the 'Enabled' checkbox. Disabled Price List will not be available for selection in the Sales and Purchase transactions.
                                                                                                                     * Price Not UOM Dependent: Consider an item, Tomatoes which you buy in Boxes and sell in Kilos. 1 Box = 10 Kilos and 1 Kilo buying price is 10rs. If this Box is unchecked and you select 1 Box in your transaction, the price will show up only for a Kilo since that's the only Item Price saved.
Now, if you tick this checkbox and make a transaction with a Box of Tomatoes, then the price will be automatically set as 100 since the price of 1 Box (10 Kilos) is 100.
                                                                                                                     * Standard Buying and Selling Price Lists are created by default.
Note: If you have multiple Price Lists, you can select a Price List or tag it to a Customer (so that it is auto-selected). Your Item Prices will automatically be updated from the Price List.


Stock Settings 
You can set default settings for your stock related transactions from the Stock Settings page.
1. Item Naming By 
 Stock Settings 

By default, the Item Name is set as per the Item Code entered. If you want Items to be named by a set Naming Series choose the 'Naming Series' option .
2. Defaults 
2.1 Default Item Group 
This will be the default item group allocated to a newly created item. Item groups are useful for classification and setting properties for the whole group. To know more visit the Item Group page.
2.2 Default Stock UOM 
The default unit of measure for stock is set as numbers (Nos), it can be changed from here.
2.3 Default Warehouse 
Set the default Warehouse from which the stock transactions are done. This will be fetched into the Default Warehouse in the Item master:  Stock Settings 
2.4 Sample Retention Warehouse 
This is the Warehouse where sample retentions are stored. To know more, visit this page.
2.5 Default Valuation method 
FIFO - first in first out or moving average valuation for your items. The default method is FIFO. If you select Moving Average, new Items will be valuated on Moving Average. You can change this when creating new Items in the Item form. Once the Item is saved, the Valuation Method cannot be changed. Read more here.
3. Limit Percent 
This is the percentage you are allowed to receive or deliver more against the quantity ordered. For example: If you have ordered 100 units, Supplier sends 120 units and the percentage is set to 10% then you are allowed to receive 110 units. By default, this is set to 0.
4. Role Allowed to Over Deliver/Receive 
Users with this role are allowed to over deliver/receive against orders above the allowance percentage
5. Show Barcode Field 
A field to enter Barcode details for an item. If unticked, the field won't be visible in the Item form.
6. Convert Item Description to Clean HTML 
Usually, descriptions are copy-pasted from a website or Word/PDF file and they contain a lot of embedded styles. This messes up the Print view of your invoices or quotes.
To fix this, you can check "Convert Item Description to Clean HTML" in Stock Settings. This will ensure that when you save the Items, their descriptions will be cleaned up.
If you want to control your description, views, and allow any HTML to be embedded, you can uncheck this property.


7. Auto insert 
 Stock Settings 

7.1 Auto insert Price List rate if missing 
Enabling this will insert an Item Price to the Price List of an Item automatically when using the Item in its first transaction. This price is fetched from the 'Rate' set in the first transaction with the Item. The Price List depends on whether you're using a Purchase or Sales transaction.
Note that, the Item Price will be automatically inserted only in the first transaction if not already present.
If this is unticked, the 'Standard Selling Rate' set in the Item when creating the Item will be added as Item Price.
7.2 Automatically Set Serial Nos based on FIFO 
Serial numbers for stock will be set automatically based on the Items entered based on first in first out. The Serial Numbers will be set automatically in transactions like Purchase/Sales Invoices, Delivery Notes, etc.
8. Allow Negative Stock 
This will allow stock items to be displayed in negative values. Using this option depends on your use case. For example, the stock transaction entries are entered at the weekend or month-end. In this case, negative stock needs to be enabled so that you can continue with your purchase/sales transaction entries.
9. Set Qty in Transactions based on Serial No Input 
The quantity of items will be set according to the serial numbers. For example, if the user has added serial nos like A001, A002, and A003 then the system will set the quantity as 3 in the transaction.
10. Automatic Material Request 
 Stock Settings 

10.1 Raise Material Request when the stock reaches re-order level 
This option is useful if you want to ensure a constant supply of raw materials/products and avoid shortage. A Material Request will be raised automatically when stock reached the re-order level defined in the Item form.
10.2 Notify by Email on the creation of automatic Material Request 
An email will be sent to notify the User with the role 'Purchase Manager' when an automatic Material Request is created.
11. Inter Warehouse Transfer Settings 
 Delivery Note Material Transfer 

11.1 Enable customer warehouse for material transfer from Delivery Note and Sales Invoice 
This option is useful when material transfer needs to be presented as a Delivery Note. For example, if there are statutory requirements where taxes are to be applied on each transfer of Material. It is easier to manage in a transaction like Delivery Note, than in the Stock Entry
11.2 Enable supplier warehouse for material transfer from Purchase Receipt and Purchase Invoice 
Similar to above option this option is useful when material transfer needs to be presented as Purchase Receipt.
To know more about inter warehouse material transfer via Delivery Note and Purchase Invoice please refer this article Material Transfer From Delivery Note
12. Freeze Stock Entries 
The User will not be allowed to make stock postings beyond this date.
 Stock Settings 

                                                                                                                        * Stock Frozen Upto: A threshold date till which stocks will be frozen.
                                                                                                                        * Freeze Stocks Older Than [Days]: Stocks older than x days will be frozen. This is calculated based on the creation date of the item.
                                                                                                                        * Role Allowed to edit frozen stock: The role you choose here will be allowed to edit frozen stock.
13. Batch identification 
Global setting for batches of stocks to be identified by a Naming Series. You can override this in the Item DocType.
Buying Settings 
Buying Settings is where you can define properties which will be applied in the Buying module's transactions. You can find Buying Settings at:
Home > Buying > Settings > Buying Settings
 Buying Settings 

Let us look at the various options that can be configured:
1. Supplier 
1.1 Supplier Naming By 
When a Supplier is saved, system generates a unique identity or name for that Supplier which can be used to refer the Supplier in various Buying transactions.
If not configured otherwise, ERPNext uses the Supplier's Name as the unique name. If you want to identify Suppliers using names like SUPP-00001, SUPP-00002, or such other patterned series, select the value of Supplier Naming By as "Naming Series".
You can define or select the Naming Series pattern from: Settings > Data > Naming Series
Read Naming Series to know more about defining a Naming Series.
1.2 Default Supplier Group 
Configure what should be the default value of Supplier Group when creating a new Supplier. For example, if most of your suppliers supply you hardware, you can set the default as 'Hardware'.
2. Purchasing 
2.1 Default Buying Price List 
Configure what should be the default Price List when creating a new Buying transaction, the default is set as 'Standard Buying'. Item prices will be fetched from this Price List. You can modify the 'Price List' by using the arrow at the right-end of the field to change the currency and country.
2.2 Purchase Order Required 
If this option is configured "Yes", ERPNext will prevent you from creating a Purchase Invoice or a Purchase Receipt directly without creating a Purchase Order first. If retail transactions are involved where the order happens offline, then Purchase Orders can be skipped. If you're accepting sample Items, you can directly create a Purchase Receipt to receive the Items to your Warehouse.
This configuration can be overridden for a particular supplier by enabling the "Allow Purchase Invoice Creation Without Purchase Order" checkbox in supplier master
 Purchase Order Required 

2.3 Purchase Receipt Required 
If this option is configured "Yes", ERPNext will prevent you from creating a Purchase Invoice without creating a Purchase Receipt first. In case the Item being transacted is a service, it'll not require a receipt, you can directly create an Invoice.
This configuration can be overridden for a particular supplier by enabling the "Allow Purchase Invoice Creation Without Purchase Receipt" checkbox in the supplier master
 Purchase Receipt Required 

2.4 Maintain Same Rate Throughout Purchase Cycle 
If this is enabled, ERPNext will validate whether an Item's price is changing in a Purchase Invoice or Purchase Receipt created from a Purchase Order, i.e. it will help you maintain the same rate throughout the purchase cycle.
You can configure the action that system should take if the same rate is not maintained in the "Action If Same Rate is Not Maintained" field:
                                                                                                                        * Stop: ERPNext will stop you from changing the price by throwing a validation error.
                                                                                                                        * Warn: The system will let you save the transaction but warn you with a message if the rate is changed.
Note: This field will only be visible if Maintain Same Rate Throughout Purchase Cycle is enabled.
3. Allow Item to be added multiple times in a transaction 
When this checkbox is unchecked, an item cannot be added multiple times in the same Purchase Order. However, you can still explicitly change the quantity. This is a validation checkbox for preventing accidental purchase of the same item. This can be checked for specific use cases where there are multiple sources for the same material, for example in manufacturing.
Supplier Group 
Supplier Group is an aggregation of suppliers that are similar in some way.
A supplier may be distinguished from a contractor or subcontractor, who commonly adds specialized input to deliverables. A supplier is also known as a vendor. There are different types of suppliers based on the goods and products they supply.
ERPNext allows you to create your own categories of suppliers. These categories are known as Supplier Groups. For example, if your suppliers are mainly pharmaceutical companies and FMCG distributors, you can create a new Supplier Groups for them and name the groups accordingly.
To access Supplier Group, go to:
Home Buying > Supplier > Supplier Group
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Supplier Group, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                        * Supplier
2. How to create a Supplier Group 
                                                                                                                        1. Go to the Supplier Group list, click on New.
                                                                                                                        2. Type a name for your new Supplier Category.
                                                                                                                        3. You can set a Parent Supplier Group for this Supplier Group.
                                                                                                                        4. Ticking the Is Group checkbox will make it a Parent Supplier Group.
                                                                                                                        5. You can also assign a default Payment Terms Template to the Supplier Group. Useful in a case where all your hardware suppliers take half payment on sales order and half post shipment.
                                                                                                                        6. Save.
 Supplier Group 

You can classify your suppliers from a range of choices available in ERPNext. Choose from a set of given options like Distributor, Electrical, Hardware, Local, Pharmaceutical, Raw Material, Services etc. Classifying your supplier into different types facilitates accounting and payments.
3. Supplier Group Tree 
You can also construct Supplier Group in the form of a tree hierarchy, similar to Chart of Accounts.
To view the Tree structure, click on Tree from the sidebar. To go back to the list view, simply select: Menu > View List.
 Supplier Group 

With the new User Permissions in place, you can now apply hierarchy based permissions. That is, if a User is permitted to view parent node of Supplier Group, he/she automatically qualifies to view the child nodes of that parent node.
For example, in the above image, let's say that user permission is applied for a User to view 'Distributor' document. Then the user also gets permitted to view its child nodes 'Book Distributor', 'Electronic Distributor', etc.
Item Price 
Item Price is the record in which you can log the selling and buying rate of an item.
1. How to create Item Price 
                                                                                                                        1. There are two ways to reach a new Item Price form:
Selling/Buying/Stock > Items and Pricing > Item Price > New.
Or
Stock > Item > Click on "+" next to Item Price.
                                                                                                                        2. Select the Item. The name, UoM and description will be fetched.
                                                                                                                        3. Select the Price List whether Selling/Buying price or any other price list you may have created.
                                                                                                                        4. Enter the actual rate in the Rate field.
                                                                                                                        5. Save.  Item Price list 
1.1 Selecting the Price List 
You can create multiple Price Lists for one Item in ERPNext to track Selling and Buying Price of an Item separately. Also if the Item's selling prices change based on Territory or due to other criteria, you can create multiple Selling Price Lists for it.
On selection of Price List, its currency and applicability whether for selling/buying or both will be fetched as well. To have Item Price fetching in the sales or purchase transaction, you should have 'Price List' selected in the transaction under Currency and Price List.
To check all Item Prices together, go to:
Stock > Stock Reports > Item Price Stock
Visit the Price Lists page to know more.
2. Features 
2.1 Unit of Measurement (UOM) 
User can add UOM specific item prices if one item is sold in differnt UOMs. For Eg: Lets say an item Rice is sold in 1 KG and 500 grams packet then users can mention the UOM in the item prices and based on the UOM selected in the transaction Item Prcie will be applied
2.2 Packing Unit 
This is the quantity that must be bought or sold per unit of measure. For example, if Packing Unit is two, and UOM is one, two items in quantity will be transacted. The default is 0, you can use non-integer UoM like 1.5Kg Oats for 1 Packing Unit. If you leave it as 0, it'll not affect any transaction.
2.3 Minimum quantity 
This is the minimum quantity of items to be transacted for this price to be applicable and updated in the Item Price list.
2.4 Applying Price List to a specific Customer/Supplier 
If you select a Selling Price list, a customer field will appear where you can assign this Item Price to a specific customer. Likewise, if you select a Buying Price List, a Supplier field will appear where you can select a specific Supplier
2.5 Applying Price List to a specific Batch 
You can also link a specific batch to an Item Price and on the selection of that batch in the transaction, the item price for that specific batch will be applied.
2.6 Validity 
There are two fields here—'Valid From' and 'Valid Upto'. Valid from is set to the date you created the Item Price, you can also set the Valid Upto date on which the Item Price will expire.
2.7 Lead Time in days 
The approximate number of days it takes the product to reach the warehouse. You can set different Item Prices based on how much time the same product will reach you from different vendors.
2.8 Note 
You can add any note about the Item Price in this field.
Item Group 
An Item Group is a way to classify items based on types.
Depending on the type of product, you can categorize an item under its respective field. If the product is service-oriented, assign it under the Item Group - service. If the product is used as a raw-material, assign it under the Raw Material category. In case, an item is used only in trading, you can categorize it under an Item Group called Trading.
To access the Item Group list, go to:
Home > Stock > Items and Pricing > Item Group
This is what the Item Group tree looks like:  Item Group Tree 
1. How to create an Item Group 
                                                                                                                           1. Go to the Item Group list, click on New.
                                                                                                                           2. Select a group node under which you wish to create the Item Group, the default root is 'All Item Groups'.
                                                                                                                           3. Select 'Add Child' or click on the New button.
                                                                                                                           4. To make this child a category/group node, tick on Group Node.
                                                                                                                           5. Click on Create New.
 Add Item Group 

1.2 Delete an Item Group 
                                                                                                                           1. Select the Item Group you want to delete.
                                                                                                                           2. Select 'Delete'.
                                                                                                                           3. Click on Yes.
2. Features 
To see the following options, click on an Item Group, click on Edit.
2.1 Parent Item Group 
You can change the parent Item Group of an item by choosing another one under General Settings.
2.2 Defaults 
                                                                                                                           * Default Price List: A default price list that'll determine the Item Prices for this Item Group.
                                                                                                                           * Default Warehouse: Default Warehouse set in transactions for the items that belong to this group.
                                                                                                                           * Default Buying/Selling Cost Center: The default Buying/Selling Cost Center to which items in this group will be billed against.
                                                                                                                           * Default Expense/Income Account: The default accounts for items that belong to this group.
                                                                                                                           * Default Supplier: On setting a Supplier here, this supplier will be chosen in purchase transactions by default for items in this group.
2.3 Item Tax 
A default item tax template will be applied to all items belonging to this group. Similarly a Tax Category can also be selected, visit Quotation to know more about Tax Categories.
2.4 Website Settings 
                                                                                                                           * Show in Website: Items belonging to this group will be shown on your website under the Item Group.
                                                                                                                           * Weightage: This is the weight for the Item Groups themselves, item groups with higher weights will be shown first.
                                                                                                                           * Slideshow: A slideshow for the Item Group, just like in an Item. Visit the Homepage page in Website module to know more.
                                                                                                                           * Description: This will appear on the Item Group page.
                                                                                                                           * Website Specifications: Label and its description for an item group.
                                                                                                                           * Unit of Measure (UoM) 
A UoM is a unit using which an Item is measured.
By default, there are many UoMs created in ERPNext. However, more can be added depending on your business use case. In the UoM there is an option 'Must be Whole Number'. If this is checked, you cannot use fraction numbers in this UoM. To know more about fractions and UoMs, check out this page.
The UoM list by itself only stores the name. The actual conversion rates are stored in a document called 'UoM Conversion Factor'. If you add new UoMs and plan to use it in transactions where it'll be converted to other UoMs, it is advised that you add it to this list.
For example, here 1 Kg is approximately 2.2 Pounds and the exact conversion factor is stored:
 UoM conversion factor 

Manufacturer 
A manufacturer created or produces an Item.
A Manufacturer may not be the same person/company that sells the Item under a specific Brand. For example, Unico Plastics can be the Manufacturer of plastic brushes but it may be sold under a Brand, say, Super Brushes.
In ERPNext, a Manufacturer can be used to identify Items using a specific part number.
To access the Manufacturer list, go to:
Home > Stock > Manufacturer
1. How to Create a Manufacturer 
                                                                                                                           1. Go to the Manufacturer list and click on New.
                                                                                                                           2. Enter a Manufacturer name and enter a description if needed.
                                                                                                                           3. Save.
 Manufacturer 
After creating a Manufacturer, it can be set in the Item form with a Manufacturer Part Number for identification.  Manufacturer 
1.1 Additional details 
The following details can be set for a Manufacturer:
                                                                                                                              * Website
                                                                                                                              * Country
                                                                                                                              * Logo
2. Features 
2.1 Address and Contacts 
An Address and Contact can be set for this Manufacturer.
Sales Return 
A sold Item being returned is known as a Sales Return.
Businesses often return goods that are already sold. They could be returned by the customer due to quality issues, non-delivery on the agreed date, or any other reason.
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Sales Return, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                              * Item
                                                                                                                              * Sales Invoice or Delivery Note
2. How to create a Sales Return 
                                                                                                                              1. First open the original Delivery Note / Sales Invoice, against which Customer returned the Items.
 Original Delivery Note 
                                                                                                                              2. Then click on 'Create > Sales Return', it will open a new Delivery Note with 'Is Return' checked, Items, Rate, and taxes will negative numbers.
 Return Against Delivery Note 
                                                                                                                              3. You can also create the return entry against the original Sales Invoice, to return stock along with credit note, check "Update Stock" option in Return Sales Invoice.
 Return Against Sales Invoice 
                                                                                                                              4. On submission of Return Delivery Note / Sales Invoice, the system will increase stock balance in the mentioned Warehouse. To maintain correct stock valuation, stock balance will go up according to the original purchase rate of the returned items.
 Return Stock Ledger 
                                                                                                                              5. In case of Return Sales Invoice, Customer account will be credited and associated income and tax account will be debited as shown in the Accounting Ledger.
 Return Stock Ledger 
If Perpetual Inventory is enabled, the system will also post accounting entry against warehouse account to sync warehouse account balance with stock balance as per Stock Ledger.
3. Impact on Stock Return via Delivery Note 
On Creating a Sales Return against a Delivery Note:
                                                                                                                                 * The Returned Quantity in the original Delivery Note along with any Sales Order linked to it, is updated.
                                                                                                                                 * The original Delivery Note's status is changed to Return Issued if 100% returned:  Return Issued 
Purchase Return 
A purchased Item being returned is known as a Purchase Return.
With the Purchase Return feature, you can return products to the Supplier. This may be on account of a number of reasons like defects in goods, quality not matching, the buyer not needing the stock, etc.
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Purchase Return, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                    * Item
                                                                                                                                    * Purchase Invoice
Or
Purchase Receipt
2. How to create a Purchase Return 
                                                                                                                                       1. First open the original Purchase Receipt, against which supplier delivered the Items.
 Original Purchase Receipt 
                                                                                                                                       2. Click on 'Create > Return', it will open a new Purchase Receipt with 'Is Return' checked. Items, Rate, and taxes will negative numbers.
 Return Against Purchase Receipt 
                                                                                                                                       3. On submission of Return Purchase Return, the system will decrease item quantity from the mentioned Warehouse. To maintain correct stock valuation, stock balance will also go up according to the original purchase rate of the returned items.
 Return Stock Ledger 
                                                                                                                                       4. In the Accounting Ledger, the Stock In Hand account will be credited and the Stock Received but Not Billed account will be debited.
 Return Stock Ledger 
If Perpetual Inventory enabled, the system will also post accounting entry against warehouse account to sync warehouse account balance with stock balance as per Stock Ledger.
3. Impact on Stock Return via Purchase Receipt 
On Creating a Purchase Return against a Purchase Receipt:
                                                                                                                                          * The Returned Quantity in the original Purchase Receipt along with any Purchase Order linked to it, is updated.
                                                                                                                                          * The original Purchase Receipt's status is changed to Return Issued if 100% returned:  Return Issued 
Customer 
A customer, who is sometimes known as a client, buyer, or purchaser is the one who receives goods, services, products, or ideas, from a seller for a monetary consideration.
Every customer needs to be assigned a unique id. Customer name itself can be the id or you can set a naming series for ids to be generated in Selling Settings.
To access the Customer list, go to:
Home > CRM > Sales Pipeline
Or
Home > Selling > Customers
1. How to create a Customer 
                                                                                                                                             1. Go to the Customer list and click on New.
                                                                                                                                             2. Enter Full Name of the customer.
                                                                                                                                             3. Select Individual if the customer represents an individual or Company if the customer represents a company in Type field.
                                                                                                                                             4. Select a Customer Group. Individual, Commercial, Non Profit and Government are available by default. You can create additional groups if you need.
                                                                                                                                             5. Select the Territory.
                                                                                                                                             6. If the customer is being created against a lead, you can select the same in From Lead field.
                                                                                                                                             7. Save.
 Creating New Customer 
You can disallow sales orders and sales invoices against a customer by clicking on 'Disabled'.
Advanced Tip: If the customer represents one of your own companies then check 'Is Internal Customer'. Check Inter Company Invoices for more details.
You can also upload customer details via the Data Import Tool.
2. Features 
General flow of transactions for a customer is as following:
 Sales Flowchart 

Note: Customers are separate from Contacts and Addresses. A Customer can have multiple Contacts and Addresses.
2.1 Multiple Contacts and Addresses 
Contacts and addresses can be created from the customer form and will be displayed there. Their order is based on the _Is Primary_ checkbox and the creation date.
Contacts and Addresses are stored separately so that you can attach multiple contacts or addresses to the customer.
2.2 Allow creation of Sales Invoice without Sales Order and Delivery Note 
If the "Delivery Note Required" or "Sales Order Required" option is configured as "Yes" in Selling Settings, it can be overridden for a particular customer by enabling the "Allow Sales Invoice Creation Without Sales Order" or "Allow Sales Invoice Creation Without Delivery Note" in the Customer Master.
 Sales Order Mandatory Setting 

2.3 Set Tax Withholding Category 
You can set the Tax Withholding Category to set up TCS against eligible customers. For more information, visit the Tax Withholding Category page.
2.4 Default Currency and Price List 
ERPNext supports Multiple Currencies and Price Lists.
You can set the default currency to be used for this customer in sales orders and sales invoices by selecting the appropriate currency in Billing Currency.
Similarly, you can set the default price list to be used for this customer in sales orders and sales invoices by selecting the appropriate currency in Default Price List.
2.5 Integration with Accounts 
Unlike many accounting software, you need not create a separate accounting ledger for each customer. By default a unified ledger named Debtors is created.
However if you specifically need a separate ledger for a customer, first create the ledger under Accounts Receivable in the Chart of Accounts and then add it in ACCOUNTING section of the customer.
Advanced Tip: ERPNext supports Multi-company Accounting. You can use the same customer records in multiple companies. Since an accounting ledger is company specific, you need to select the company and the corresponding ledger in ACCOUNTING section if you decide have separate accounting ledger for a customer.
2.6 Credit Limit and Payment Terms 
You can set the credit limit by entering the amount in 'Credit Limit' field. Read Credit Limit for more details.
You can select the default Payment Terms to be applied in sales orders and sales invoices in 'Default Payment Terms Template' field.
2.7 Sales Team and Sales Partner 
If you have one or more Sales Person to manage the sales to the customer, you can add them in SALES TEAM section. If multiple sales person are involved you can split the contribution among them. Make sure that the sum of all sales persons contribution equals to 100%.
Check Sales Persons in Sales Transaction for more details.
A Sales Partner is a third party distributor / dealer / commission agent / affiliate / reseller who facilitates your products/services sales, for a commission. If you sell your products/services to the customer through a sales partner you can set it in 'Sales Partner' field and mention the 'Commission Rate' for calculation of commission.
2.8 Loyalty Program 
If you would like offer a Loyalty Program to the customer, select the same in Loyalty Program field.
2.9 View Accounting Ledger and Accounts Receivable 
Click on Accounting Ledger button to view all accounting transactions with the customer.
Click on Accounts Receivable button to view the details of all outstanding invoices.
2.10 Set Customer Id, Default Customer Group, Territory, and Price List 
You can set how a unique id should be generated each the customer in Selling Settings.
                                                                                                                                                * Naming Series: If you would like a unique id to be generated for each customer based on the naming series select 'Naming Series' in Customer Naming By.
                                                                                                                                                * Customer Name: If customer name itself should be used as an id then select 'Customer Name' in Customer Naming By. In this case, if you create two customers with identical names, - 1 will be suffixed to the second customer.
 Customer Id 

You can set the default customer group, territory and price list in Selling Settings.


Address 
You can record the addresses associated with a Lead, Customer, Supplier, Shareholder, Sales Partner or a Warehouse.
You can also add an Address as a standalone record without linking it to any of the entities listed above.
To access the Address list, go to:
Home > CRM > Address
1. How to create an Address 
                                                                                                                                                1. Go to the Address list and click on New.
                                                                                                                                                2. Select Address Type.
                                                                                                                                                3. Enter details in Address Line 1, Address Line 2, City/Town, County, State, Country.
                                                                                                                                                4. Enter Email Address, Phone and Fax.
                                                                                                                                                5. Enter Link DocType and Link Name to link this address to customer, supplier etc.
                                                                                                                                                6. Save.  Contact 
You can also add an Address from the Customer or Supplier record by clicking on “New Address" button as shown below.
 Add Address From Customer 

To Import multiple addresses from a spreadsheet, use the Data Import Tool.
________________


2. Features 
2.1 Link an Address to Multiple Entities 
An address may be linked to multiple customers or multiple suppliers.
An address can also be linked to customers and suppliers at the same time.
 Link One Address to Multiple Entities 

2.2 Address Title 
If the address is not linked to any entity you need to manually add a title.
If the address is linked to an entity like a customer or supplier, the title is generated automatically in 'Entity Name-Address Type' format.
 Address Title 

2.3 Preferred Billing Address and Shipping Address 
If you check 'Preferred Shipping Address', the address would be automatically added in the Shipping Address in Sales Order, Sales Invoice and Delivery Note transactions.
Similarly, if you check 'Preferred Billing Address', the address would be automatically added in the Billing Address in Sales Order, Sales Invoice and Delivery Note transactions.
2.4 GST Localization for India 
If the customer or supplier has registered under GST, you can enter GSTIN and GST State in Address. Make sure GSTIN entered is in valid format.  GST Details in Address 
In sales transactions along with address, GSTIN is also fetched.
 GST Details in Sales Order 

You can also add addresses of your own company's facilities. Check 'Is Your Company Address', select Company in Link DocType, and Company Name in Link Name for such addresses and you can select them in GST Sales Invoice to print your own address.
 Company Address 

GSTIN is to be added in Address and not in Customer/Supplier, as one Customer/Supplier may have multiple GSTIN (one for each state where he conducts his business).


Selling 
Selling is the communication that happens with the customer prior to and during the sale. You might be managing all the communication yourself or you may have a small team of sales people to handle this. ERPNext helps you track the communication leading up to the sale by keeping all your documents in an organized and searchable manner.
Quotation 
A quotation is an estimated cost of the products/services you're selling to your future/present customer.
During a sale, a customer may request for a note about the products or services you are planning to offer along with the prices and other terms of engagement. This has many names like "Proposal", Estimate", "Pro Forma Invoice" or a Quotation.
To access the Quotation list, go to:
Home > Selling > Sales > Quotation
A typical sales flow looks like:
 Make Quotation from Opportunity 

A Quotation contains details about:
                                                                                                                                                   * The recipient of the Quotation
                                                                                                                                                   * The Items and quantities you are offering.
                                                                                                                                                   * The rates at which they are offered.
                                                                                                                                                   * The taxes applicable.
                                                                                                                                                   * Other charges (like shipping, insurance) if applicable.
                                                                                                                                                   * The validity of contract.
                                                                                                                                                   * The time of delivery.
                                                                                                                                                   * Other conditions.
Tip: Images look great on Quotations. Make sure your items have an image attached.
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Quotation, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                   * Customer
                                                                                                                                                   * Lead
                                                                                                                                                   * Item
2. How to create a Quotation 
                                                                                                                                                   1. Go to the Quotation list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                   2. Select if the Quotation is to a Customer or a Lead from the 'Quotation To' field.
                                                                                                                                                   3. Enter Customer/Lead name.
                                                                                                                                                   4. Enter a Valid till date after which the quoted amount will be considered invalid.
                                                                                                                                                   5. Order Type can be Sales, Maintenance, or Shopping Cart. Shopping Cart is for website shopping cart and is not intended to be created from here.
                                                                                                                                                   6. Add the Items and their quantities in the items table, the prices will be fetched automatically from Item Price. You can also fetch items from an Opportunity by clicking on Get Items from > Opportunity.
                                                                                                                                                   7. Add additional taxes and charges as applicable.
                                                                                                                                                   8. Save.
You can also create a Quotation from an Opportunity shown as follows.
 Make Quotation from Opportunity 

3. Features 
3.1 Address and Contact 
In this section there are four fields:
                                                                                                                                                   * Customer Address: This is the Billing address of the customer.
                                                                                                                                                   * Shipping Address: Address where the items will be shipped to.
                                                                                                                                                   * Contact Person: If your customer is an organization, then you can add the person to contact in this field.
                                                                                                                                                   * Territory: Region where the customer belongs to. Default is All Territories.
3.2 Currency and Price List 
You can set the currency in which the quotation/sales order is to be sent. If you set a Pricing List, then the item prices will be fetched from that list. Ticking on Ignore Pricing Rule will ignore the Pricing Rules set in Accounts > Pricing Rule.
Read about Price Lists and Multi-Currency Transactions to know more.
3.3 The Items Table 
This table can be expanded by clicking on the inverted triangle present rightmost of the table.
                                                                                                                                                   * On selecting Item Code, the following will be fetched automatically: item name, description, any image if set, quantity default as 1, the rates. You can add discounts in the Discounts and Margin section.
                                                                                                                                                   * Under Discount and Margin you can add extra margin for profit or give a discount. Both can be set based on either amount or percentage. The final rate will be shown below in the Rate section. You can assign an Item Tax Template created specifically for an item.
                                                                                                                                                   * Item weights will be fetched if set in the Item master.
                                                                                                                                                   * In Warehouse and Reference, the warehouse will be fetched from the Item master, this is the warehouse where your stock is present.
                                                                                                                                                   * Under Planning you can see the Projected quantity and the actual quantity present. To know more about these fields, click here. If you click on the 'Stock Balance' button, it'll take you to a doctype where you can generate a stock report for the item.
                                                                                                                                                   * Shopping cart, additional notes is for website transactions. Notes about the item will be fetched here when added via a shopping cart. For example: make food extra spicy. Introduced in v12
                                                                                                                                                   * Page Break Will create a page break just before this item when printing.
                                                                                                                                                   * You can insert rows below/above, duplicate, move, or delete rows in this table.
                                                                                                                                                   * Tip: You can also Download the items table in CSV format and Upload it to another transaction.
The total quantity, rate, and net weight of all items will be shown below the item table. The rate shown here is pre-tax.
3.4 Taxes and Charges 
To add taxes to your Quotation, you can select a Sales Taxes and Charges Template or add the taxes manually in the Sales Taxes and Charges table.
The total taxes and charges will be displayed below the table. Clicking on Tax Breakup will show all the components and amounts.
 Taxes in Quotation 

To add taxes automatically via a Tax Category, visit this page.
Shipping Rule 
A Shipping Rule helps set the cost of shipping an Item. The cost will usually increase with the distance of shipping. To know more, visit the Shipping Rule page.
3.5 Additional Discount 
Other than offering discount per item, you can add a discount to the whole quotation in this section. This discount could be based on the Grand Total i.e., post tax/charges or Net total i.e., pre tax/charges. The additional discount can be applied as a percentage or an amount.
Read Applying Discount for more details.
3.6 Payment Terms 
Sometimes payment is not done all at once. Depending on the agreement, half of the payment may be made before shipment and the other half after receiving the goods/services. You can add a Payment Terms template or add the terms manually in this section.
 Payment Terms in Quotation 

Read Payment Terms to know more.
3.7 Terms and Conditions 
In Sales/Purchase transactions there might be certain Terms and Conditions based on which the Supplier provides goods or services to the Customer. You can apply the Terms and Conditions to transactions to transactions and they will appear when printing the document. To know about Terms and Conditions, click here
3.8 Print Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your quotation/sales order on your company's letterhead. Know more here.
'Group same items' will group the same items added multiple times in the items table. This can be seen when your print.
Print Headings 
Quotations can also be titled as “Proforma Invoice” or “Proposal”. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
3.9 More Information 
                                                                                                                                                   * Campaign: A Sales campaign can be associated with the quotation. A set of quotations can be part of a sales campaign.
                                                                                                                                                   * Source: A Lead Source type can be linked if quoting to a lead, whether from a campaign, from a supplier, an exhibition etc,. Select Existing Customer if quoting to a customer.
                                                                                                                                                   * Supplier Quotation: A Supplier Quotation can be linked for comparing with your current quotation to a buyer. You can get an idea of profit/loss by comparing the two.
3.10 Submitting the Quotation 
Quotation is a “Submittable” transaction. When you click on Save, a draft is saved, on submitting, it is submitted permanently. Since you send this Quotation to your Customer or Lead, you must freeze it so that changes are not made after you send the Quotation.
On submitting, you can create a Sales Order or a Subscription from the Quotation using the Create button. In the Dashboard present on the top, you can go to the Sales Order linked with this Quotation. In case it didn't work out, you can set the Quotation as lost by clicking on the 'Set as Lost button'.
 Submitted Quotation 

Sales Order 
A Sales Order is a confirmation of an order from your customer.
It is usually a binding Contract with your Customer. Once your customer confirms the Quotation you can convert your Quotation into a Sales Order.
 Sales Flow 

To access Sales Order, go to:
Home > Selling > Sales > Sales Order
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Sales Order, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                   * Customer
                                                                                                                                                   * Item
2. How to create a Sales Order 
                                                                                                                                                   1. Go to the Sales Order list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                   2. Select the Customer.
                                                                                                                                                   3. Set the 'Delivery Date' - applied to the whole order.
                                                                                                                                                   4. With Order Type, you can set whether it's a Sales order, Maintenance order, or from the online Shopping Cart of your website. By default, this value is set to "Sales".
                                                                                                                                                   5. In the "Customer's Purchase Order" you can enter the Customers Purchase Order No. or other details which may be useful as a reference.
                                                                                                                                                   6. Enter the items and quantities to be delivered in the Item table. If Item Prices are set for the items, the Rate field will be populated automatically. If not, enter the item Rate manually. You can also overwrite the auto-populated Item Rate in case you want to change that value.
                                                                                                                                                   7. Click "Save" to save a draft of the Sales Order.
                                                                                                                                                   8. "Submit" to submit the Sales Order to the System.
2.1 Other ways to create a Sales Order 
                                                                                                                                                   1. You can also create a Sales Order from a submitted Quotation via the Create button on the top right.
 Make Sales Order from Quotation 
                                                                                                                                                   2. Or you can create a new Sales Order and pull details from a Quotation.
 Make Sales Order from Quotation 
To allow for per-Customer, per-Item Pricing Rules, ("Customer A" pays $1.00 for "Item 1" but "Customer B" pays $1.25 for "Item 1"), there's a check box called 'Allow User to Edit Price List Rate in Transaction' in Selling Settings. This enables saving the specific item price per customer when you change a price in the Sales Order.
3. Features 
3.1 Currency and Price List 
You can set the currency in which the quotation/sales order is to be sent. If you set a Pricing List, then the item prices will be fetched from that list. Ticking on 'Ignore Pricing Rule' will ignore the Pricing Rules set in Accounts > Pricing Rule.
Read about Price Lists and Multi-Currency Transactions to know more.
3.1 Set Source Warehouse 
If you have the same stock in multiple warehouses, setting a warehouse here will cause all the items from the item table to be fetched from this warehouse. You need to have stock available in this 'source warehouse' you're setting. Note that this option will override the 'Default Warehouse' you've set in the Item master.
3.2 The Items Table 
                                                                                                                                                      * Delivery Date against each item: If there are multiple items and if you enter a delivery date in the first row, the date will be copied to other rows as well where it is blank. You'll have to set these if not set globally at the top of the Sales Order.
A Sales Order displays the billed amount, valuation rate, and gross profit in the items table when you click on the inverted triangle to expand a row.
You can also add Items in the Items table by scanning their barcodes if you have a barcode scanner. Read documentation for tracking items using barcode to know more.
                                                                                                                                                      * Delivery Warehouse: This is the warehouse from where the stock will be picked to be delivered to your customer.
                                                                                                                                                      * Drop Ship: This is a situation where you do not keep items in stock in your own Warehouse but deliver items directly to a customer from a distributor. To enable drop shipping for an item tick on the 'Supplier delivers to Customer'. When you tick on this, the Delivery Warehouse option will disappear since you're not shipping the item. Select your supplier in the 'Supplier' field.
Further, if you create a purchase order from this sales order, it'll be created for the supplier you selected here and only the items which are valid for drop shipping.
                                                                                                                                                      * Planning: Read Projected Quantity to know about the fields under planning.
The other fields in the item table are similar as explained in Quotation.
3.3 Packing List 
This is linked to the Product Bundle and appears only when the transaction involves a product bundle.
The “Packing List” table will be automatically updated when you “Save” the Sales Order. If any Items in your table are Product Bundle (packets), then the “Packing List” will contain the exploded (detailed) list of your Items.
You will be asked to select a Delivery Warehouse even for a product bundle item, this warehouse will be then updated in the Packing List items. You can change the warehouse, serial number, and batch in the packing list items in case items in your product bundle come from different warehouses.
Here is what a Packing List looks like:
 Packing List 

3.4 Taxes and Charges 
To add taxes to your Sales Order, you can select a Sales Taxes and Charges Template or add the taxes manually in the Sales Taxes and Charges table.
The total taxes and charges will be displayed below the table. Clicking on Tax Breakup will show all the components and amounts.
 Taxes in Quotation 

Shipping Rule 
A Shipping Rule helps set the cost of shipping an Item. The cost will usually increase with the distance of shipping. To know more, visit the Shipping Rule page.
If a Tax Category is selected, the template and tax table will be automatically populated. To know more, visit this page.
3.5 Additional Discount 
Other than offering discount per item, you can add a discount to the whole sales order in this section. This discount could be based on the Grand Total i.e., post tax/charges or Net total i.e., pre tax/charges. The additional discount can be applied as a percentage or an amount.
Read Applying Discount for more details.
3.6 Payment Terms 
Sometimes payment is not done all at once. Depending on the agreement, half of the payment may be made before shipment and the other half after receiving the goods/services. You can add a Payment Terms template or add the terms manually in this section.
Read Payment Terms to know more.
3.7 Terms and Conditions 
In Sales/Purchase transactions there might be certain Terms and Conditions based on which the Supplier provides goods or services to the Customer. You can apply the Terms and Conditions to transactions to transactions and they will appear when printing the document. To know about Terms and Conditions, click here
3.8 Print Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your quotation/sales order on your company's letterhead. Know more here.
'Group same items' will group the same items added multiple times in the items table. This can be seen when your print.
Print Headings 
Quotations can also be titled as “Proforma Invoice” or “Proposal”. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
3.9 More Information 
                                                                                                                                                         * Campaign: A Sales campaign can be associated with the quotation. A set of quotations can be part of a sales campaign.
                                                                                                                                                         * Source: A Lead Source type can be linked if quoting to a lead, whether from a campaign, from a supplier, an exhibition etc,. Select Existing Customer if quoting to a customer.
                                                                                                                                                         * Inter Company Order Reference: If two of your companies are part of the same organization or have a parent-child relationship, you can link a Purchase Order to this Sales Order. Know more about inter-company invoicing here.
                                                                                                                                                         * Project: If your Sales Order is part of a project, you can link it here and the Project progress will be updated.
3.10 Billing and Delivery Status 
                                                                                                                                                         * Status: The status of the Sales Order whether a Draft, On Hold, To Deliver and Bill, To Bill, To Deliver, Completed, Cancelled, or Closed.
                                                                                                                                                         * Amount Billed and Delivered percent: The percentage of amount billed and the items delivered from the Sales Order.
3.11 Commission 
If the sale took place via one of your Sales Partners, you can add their commission details here. Enter the commission rate and the commission amount will be displayed below.
3.12 Sales Team 
Sales Persons: ERPNext allows you to add multiple Sales Persons who may have worked on this deal. You can change the contribution percentage of the Sales Persons and track how much incentives they earned on this deal.
 Sales Team in Sales Order 

3.13 Auto Repeat Section 
Auto repeating Sales Orders is like a subscription. Set a start and end date for the auto-repeat. Select the Auto Repeat created. To know more about auto repeat click here.
3.14 After Submitting 
Sales Order is a “Submittable” transaction. You will be able to execute further steps (like making a Delivery Note) only after “Submitting” a Sales Order.
Once you “Submit” your Sales Order, you can trigger actions from the Sales Order:
                                                                                                                                                         * You can Add, Update, Delete items in the Sales Order by clicking on the Update Items button. However you cannot delete items which has already been delivered or has work order assigned to it.
                                                                                                                                                         * Status: Once submitted, you can hold a Sales Order or Close it.
                                                                                                                                                         * Create: From a submitted Sales Order, you can create the following:
                                                                                                                                                         * Delivery Note - To make a shipment entry. You can also make Delivery Note for selected items based on the delivery date.
                                                                                                                                                         * Work Order - To start a Work Order with the raw materials.
                                                                                                                                                         * Sales Invoice - To bill the Order.
                                                                                                                                                         * Material Request - To request re-stocking materials if out of stock.
                                                                                                                                                         * Request for Raw Materials - To request raw materials required for manufacturing.
                                                                                                                                                         * Project - To create a project based on the Sales Order.
                                                                                                                                                         * Subscription - To auto repeat the Sales Order, i.e., make it a subscription.
                                                                                                                                                         * Payment Request - To make a Payment Request.
                                                                                                                                                         * Payment - To record payment against the Sales Order.
These actions can also be seen at the top of the Dashboard. You can also make an accounting Journal Entry based on the Sales Order from the dashboard.
 Actions from Submitted Sales Order 

3.15 Sales Order with Order type 'Maintenance' 
When the 'Order Type' of the Sales Order is 'Maintenance' follow these steps:
                                                                                                                                                         1. Enter Currency, Price list, and Item details.
                                                                                                                                                         2. Mention taxes and other information.
                                                                                                                                                         3. Save and Submit the form.
                                                                                                                                                         4. Once the form is submitted, the Create button will provide these choices specific to the maintenance Order Type.
i) Maintenance Visit ii) Maintenance Schedule.
 Sales Order Maintenance Type 
Note 1: By clicking on the Action button and selecting 'Maintenance Visit' you can directly fill the visit form. The Sales Order details will be fetched directly.
Note 2: By clicking on the Action button and selecting 'Maintenance Schedule' you can fill the schedule details. The Sales Order details will be fetched directly.
Note 3: By clicking on the Invoice button you can make an Invoice for your services. The sales orders details will be fetched directly.


Sales Partner 
Sales Partners are people or companies that assist you in getting business.
Sales Partners can be represented by different names in ERPNext. You can call them Channel Partner, Distributor, Dealer, Agent, Retailer, Implementation Partner, Reseller, etc.
For each Sales Partner, you can define a commission rate. When a Sales Partner is selected in transactions, their commission is calculated over Net Total of Sales Order/Invoice or Delivery Note.
To access Sales Partner, go to:
Home > Selling > Sales Partner
1. How to Create a Sales Partner 
                                                                                                                                                            1. Go to the Sales Partner list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                            2. Enter the Sales Partner name and the Commission Rate.
                                                                                                                                                            3. You can also select the type of Sales Partner you're creating to identify if they're a Reseller or Retailer, and so on.
                                                                                                                                                            4. Save.
 Sales Partner 

2. Features 
2.1 Address and Contact 
You can add and track a Sales Partner's Addresses and Contact details. These can be added in the Address & Contacts section in a Sales Partner:
 Sales Partner Address 

2.2 Sales Partner Target 
You can allocate Targets for each Item Group and Territory, based on Qty and Amount. You can allocate targets Territory- or Month-wise, to know more see Related Topics.  Sales Partner Target 
2.3 Including Sales Partners in Your Website 
To include the name of your Partner on your website, tick the "Show in Website" checkbox. When you click on "Show in Website", you will see a field where you can attach the logo of your partner's company and enter a brief introduction of the partner, and optionally add a description for internal purposes/references.  Sales Partner 
To see the listing of partners, go to:
https://yourCompanyName.erpnext.com/partners
 Sales Partner 

2.4 Track Sales via Sales Partner 
Sales Partner can actively generates leads for your company products/ services. To track the performance of each sales partner use Referral Code and their URL as below
URL as shown below should be sent to the sales partner to use in their website/campaign.
e.g. A URL having "sp" as parameter like this http://xyz.erpnext.com?sp=speed will capture the Sales Partner Information in the Sales Order generated via Shopping Cart.
 Sales Partner Referral Code 

3. Sales Partner Reports 
3.1 Sales Partner Commission Summary 
To get Sales Order wise Sales Partner commission data.
 Sales Partner Target 

3.2 Sales Partner Transaction Summary 
To get Sales Order item-wise Sales Partner commission data.
 Sales Partner Target 

3.3 Sales Partner Target Variance 
This report will provide you variance between target and actual performance of the Sales Partner based on the Sales Order / Sales Invoice / Delivery Note data. User can view this report period wise like Monthly, Quarterly, Half-Yearly, or Yearly.
 Sales Partner Target 



Customer Portal 
Customer Portal is designed to give easy accessibility to customers of a company.
This portal allows customers to login and find out information relevant to them. The customers can trace the communication history of their mails. They can also check order status by logging into the website.


Customer Orders Invoices And Shipping Status 
ERPNext Web Portal gives your customers quick access to their Orders, Invoices and Shipments Customers can check the status of their orders, invoices, and shipping status by logging on to the web.
 Customer Portal 

Once an order is raised, either using the Shopping Cart or from within ERPNext, your customer can view the order and keep an eye on the billing and shipment status. When the invoice and payment against these orders are submitted, the customer can see the updated status on the portal, at a glance.
 Customer Portal 

Outstanding Sales Invoice 
 Customer Portal 

Paid Sales Invoice 
 Customer Portal 

Portal Login 
To login into the customer account, the customer has to use his Email Address and the password sent by ERPNext; generated through the sign-up process.
 Website User Signup 

Sign Up 
Your Customer and Suppliers can signup to your ERPNext account by following Signup option on the Login Page.
Step 1: Signup 
On the Login Page, you will find option to Signup.
 Website User Signup 

Step 2: Enter Customer Name and ID 
 Website User Signup 

After the sign up process, an email will be sent to the customers Email Address with the password details.
Issues 
The customer portal makes it very easy for a customer to raise concerns. A simple and intuitive interface facilitates your customer to report their concerns as Issues. They can view the complete thread of their conversation.
Empty Issue List 
 Issue List 

New Issue 
 New Issue  

Open Issue 
 Issue Raised 

Reply on Issue 
 Issue reply 

Sales Reports 
You can view your company's sales performance, analyze sales data in different views to see the sales performance. With filters, you can dynamically change what is displayed. There are three window areas that make up the Sales Analytics Report-The Filter Toolbar Window, the Graph Window and the Data Window shown as follows:
These analytics can be found under:
Home > Selling > Key Reports
1. Sales Analytics Report 
Go to Selling > Analytics > Sales Analytics. The Sales Analytics report looks like this:
 Sales Analytics Sections 

The toolbar provides filters to select what data is to be used. Using the dropdown selections, the data displayed can be refined. As the selections are made, data is reflected in the data window as well as the graph window.
 Sales Analytics Filters 

Within the data window, selections can be made to expand or compress the data to be analyzed. Each box can be selected or unselected. There is no restriction for data comparison, so a higher level can be compared to a lower level.
 Sales Analytics Result 

Using the 'Set Chart' button, you can set values for the X and Y fields, use different type of charts and select a color.
2. Sales Funnel Report 
Go to Selling > Analytics. The report "Sales Funnel" provides a sales generation analysis. It displays the progression of stages in the sales process. There are four stages leading up to a Sales Order: Active Leads, Opportunities, Quotations and Converted (has become a Customer).
                                                                                                                                                            * Active Leads shows the number of all your Leads, including all the other stages.
                                                                                                                                                            * Opportunities shows the number of Leads for which an Opportunity was created.
                                                                                                                                                            * Quotation shows the number of leads for which a Quotation was submitted.
                                                                                                                                                            * Converted shows the number of leads for which a Quotation and Sales Order was submitted.
The earlier stages usually include the later stages. However, if an earlier stage was skipped, you might see counterintuitive results like two Quotations resulting from one Opportunity (because it is not mandatory to create an Opportunity first).
 Sales Funnel 

Once a date range has been selected, the graph is updated, the graph reflects the changes and the associated labels.
3. Customer Acquisition and Loyalty Report 
Go to Selling > Analytics. To understand revenue, it's often helpful to look at the data from a new customer and existing customers standpoint. This report helps visualize customer loyalty. There are two windows within this report: The Filter Window and the Data Window.
 Customer Acquisition and Loyalty 

Accessing the Filter Window, the company and date ranges can be applied. Data is updated in the Data Window as changes are applied.
Within the Data Window, columns of information are accessible.
                                                                                                                                                            * Moving columns: The columns can be moved, re-arranged by clicking on the column headings and dragging them.
                                                                                                                                                            * Sorting: To sort the data in columns, click on the right-hand side of a column heading and you'll see options to sort as ascending, descending, reset sorting, or remove a column.
                                                                                                                                                            * Filtering: The text boxes below the column headings work as instant filters. Enter a number there and all matching records will be shown.
 Customer Acquisition and Loyalty 

4. Sales Order Analysis Report 
Go to Selling > Key Reports > Sales Order Analysis.
This report provides current billing and delivery status for all active Sales Orders. Company, Date ranges and SO status can be applied using the filter window.
  

  

Important Columns 
                                                                                                                                                            * Delay - time taken(in days) to completely deliver SO post delivery date.
                                                                                                                                                            * Time taken to deliver - Total time taken(in days), irrespective of delivery date to completely deliver the Sales Order.
Under Key Reports there are reports for Sales Order Analysis, Inactive Customers, Sales Person-wise Transaction Summary, Item-wise Sales History, Quotation Trends, Sales Order Trends in the Selling module.


Item Variants 
An Item Variant is a version of an Item with different attributes like sizes or colors.
Eg: Suppose t-shirt is an Item and it comes in different sizes and colors like small, medium, large and red, blue, green. In ERPNext the t-shirt will be considered as an Item template and each of the variations will be an Item Variant.
A _blue_ t-shirt in size _small_ rather than just a t-shirt. Item variants let you treat the _small_, _medium_, and _large_ versions of a t-shirt as variations of one Item 't-shirt'.
Without Item variants, you would have to treat the _small_, _medium_ and _large_ versions of a t-shirt as three separate Items.
1. Using Item Variants 
Variants can be based on two things:
                                                                                                                                                            1. Item Attributes
                                                                                                                                                            2. Manufacturers
Tip: Once an item template is created, when you update this template, all the variants are also updated accordingly.
1.1 Creating the Item Variant Template 
                                                                                                                                                            1. To use Item Variants in ERPNext, create an Item and tick 'Has Variants' under Variants.
                                                                                                                                                            2. The Item then shall be referred to as a so-called 'Template'. Such a Template is not identical to a regular 'Item' any longer. For example, it (the Template) cannot be used directly in any transaction (Sales Order, Delivery Note, Purchase Invoice) itself.
                                                                                                                                                            3. Only the Variants of the Item (_blue_ t-shirt in size _small)_ can be practically used. Therefore it would be ideal to decide whether an item 'Has Variants' or not directly when creating it.  Has Variants 
                                                                                                                                                            4. On selecting 'Has Variants' a table will appear. Specify the variant attributes for the Item in the table. In case the attribute has Numeric Values, you can specify the range and create intervals based on the increment values.  Valid Attributes 
Note: You cannot make Transactions against a 'Template'.
1.2 Creating the Item Variants Based on Item Attributes 
To create 'Item Variants' against a 'Template' click on 'Create'. From there, choose whether to create a single variant or multiple. Single is simple where you create just one or more attributes and one Item will be created. When choosing multiple variants, tick the attributes and multiple items will be created. For example, if you choose Color: Red, Green and Size: Small, Medium, Large, 6 variants will be created.
Creating multiple variants in ERPNext:
 Make Variants 

To learn more about setting attributes check out Item Attributes
1.3 Item Variants Based on Manufacturers 
To setup variants based on Manufacturers, in your Item template, set "Variants Based On" as "Manufacturers" In this case, to create variants, click on Create > Make Variant. The system will prompt you to select a Manufacturer. You can also optionally put in a Manufacturer Part Number.
 Setup Item Variant by Manufacturer 

The naming of the variant will be based on the name (ID) of the template Item with a number suffix. e.g. "Screwdriver" will have variant "Screwdriver-1".
2. Update Item Variants Based on Template 
Go to: Home > Stock > Items and Pricing > Item Variant Settings. The fields displayed here will be copied over to the variants as well. By default, all fields are shown, delete any rows you don't want to be updated from the item template to the variants.


Item Attribute 
Item Attributes are characteristics given to Item Variants based on which Item Variants are created.
Item Attributes can be color, size, length, etc. Multiple attributes like multiple colors can be defined.
 Attribute Master 

To access the Item Attribute list, go to:
Home > Stock > Settings > Item Attribute
1. How to create an Item Attribute 
                                                                                                                                                               1. Go to the Item Attribute list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                               2. Enter a name for the Attribute.
                                                                                                                                                               3. Enter the attribute values in the table.
                                                                                                                                                               4. Save.
The attribute values can be numeric or non-numeric.
1.1 Non Numeric Attributes 
For Non Numeric Attributes, specify attributes values along with its abbreviation in the Attribute Values table.
 Attribute Master 

1.2 Numeric Attributes 
If your attribute is Numeric, select Numeric Values. Specify the Range and the Increment Value. In the following example the pipe length is of range 0.25 to 3.0 and the range is 0.25 so the variants will be 0.25, 0.5, 0.75...3.0.
 Attribute Master 

Material Request 
A Material Request is a simple document identifying a requirement of a set of Items (products or services) for a particular reason.
A Material Request can have the following purposes:
                                                                                                                                                               * Purchase: If the material being requested is to be purchased.
                                                                                                                                                               * Material Transfer: If the material being requested is to be shifted from one Warehouse to another.
                                                                                                                                                               * Material Issue: If the material being requested is to be Issued for some purpose like manufacturing.
                                                                                                                                                               * Manufacture: If the material being requested is to be produced.
                                                                                                                                                               * Customer Provided: If the material being requested is to be provided by Customer. To know more about this, visit the Customer Provided Item page.
 Material Request 

To access the Material Request list, go to:
Home > Stock > Stock Transactions > Material Request
1. How to create a Material Request 
                                                                                                                                                               1. Go to the Material Request list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                               2. Enter the required by date.
                                                                                                                                                               3. Select from one of the purposes as listed above.
                                                                                                                                                               4. You can fetch Items from a BOM, Sales Order, or Product Bundle.  MR fetch from 
                                                                                                                                                               5. Select the Item and set the quantity.
                                                                                                                                                               6. Select the Warehouse for which Items are required.
                                                                                                                                                               7. You can change the Required By date for individual Items in this table.
                                                                                                                                                               8. Save and Submit.
1.1 Alternate ways of creating a Material Request 
A Material Request can be generated automatically:
                                                                                                                                                                  * From a Sales Order.
                                                                                                                                                                  * When the Projected Quantity of an Item in Stores (Warehouses) reaches a particular level.
                                                                                                                                                                  * From your a Production Plan to plan your manufacturing activities.
If your Items are inventory items, you must also mention the Warehouse where you expect these Items to be delivered. This helps to keep track of the Projected Quantity for this Item.
Info: Material Request is not mandatory. It is ideal if you have centralized buying so that you can collect this information from various departments.
1.2 Statuses 
These are the statuses a Material Request can be in:
                                                                                                                                                                  * Draft: A draft is saved but yet to be submitted to the system.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Submitted: Document is submitted to the system.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Stopped: If no more materials are needed the Material Request can be stopped.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Canceled: The materials are not needed at all and the request is canceled.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Pending: The Purchase/Manufacture is pending to complete the Material Request.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Partially Ordered: Purchase Orders for some Items from the Material Request are made and some are pending.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Ordered: All Items in the Material Request are ordered via Purchase Orders.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Issued: The materials are issued using a Material Issue Stock Entry.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Transferred: The required materials are transferred from one Warehouse to another using a Stock Entry.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Received: The materials were ordered and have been received at your Warehouse using a Purchase Receipt.
2. Features 
2.1 Items table 
                                                                                                                                                                  * Barcode: You can track Items using barcodes.
                                                                                                                                                                  * The Item Code, name, description, Image, and Manufacturer will be fetched from the Item master.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Scan Barcode: You can add Items in the Items table by scanning their barcodes if you have a barcode scanner. Read documentation for tracking items using barcode to know more.
                                                                                                                                                                  * The UoM, Conversion Factor, and Amount will be fetched. You change the Warehouse for which the material is being requested.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Accounting details like Expense Account and Accounting Dimensions can be set for the Items.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Page Break will create a page break just before this item when printing.
2.2 Setting Warehouses 
                                                                                                                                                                  * Set Warehouse: Optionally, you can set the Warehouse where the requested Items will arrive. This will be fetched into the 'For Warehouse' fields in the Item table rows.
2.3 More Information 
In the 'Requested For' field, you can set a Reference from where Material Request was generated.
2.4 Printing Details 
Letterhead 
You can print your Material Request on your company's letterhead. Read Letter head documentation to learn more.
Print Headings 
Purchase Receipt headings can also be changed when printing the document. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
2.5 Terms and Conditions 
In Sales/Purchase transactions there might be certain Terms and Conditions based on which the Supplier provides goods or services to the Customer. You can apply the Terms and Conditions to transactions to transactions and they will appear when printing the document. To know about Terms and Conditions, click here
2.6 After Submitting 
You can create the following documents:
                                                                                                                                                                  * Request For Quotation
                                                                                                                                                                  * Purchase Order
                                                                                                                                                                  * Supplier Quotation
 Material Request 

2.7 Automatically generate Material Requests 
Material Requests can be generated automatically by enabling the setting in Stock Settings and setting the level in the Item form. When the stock level dips below a certain quantity, setting a reorder will automatically create material requests for the Item.


Purchase Receipt 
Purchase Receipts are made when you accept Items from your Supplier usually against a Purchase Order.
You can also accept Purchase Receipts directly without the need for a Purchase Order. To do this, set Purchase Order Required as “No” in Buying Settings.
To access the Purchase Receipt list, go to:
Home > Stock > Stock Transactions > Purchase Receipt
 Purchase Receipt flow 

1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Purchase Receipt, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                  * Purchase Order
Note: From version-13 onwards we have introduced immutable ledger which changes the rules for cancellation of stock entries and posting backdated stock transactions in ERPNext. Learn more here.
2. How to create a Purchase Receipt 
A Purchase Receipt is usually created from a Purchase Order. In the Purchase Order, click on Create > Purchase Receipt.
To create a Purchase Receipt _manually_ (not recommended), follow these steps:
                                                                                                                                                                  1. Go to the Purchase Receipt list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                                  2. The Supplier name and the Items can be fetched from the Purchase Order by clicking on 'Get Items from > Purchase Order'.
                                                                                                                                                                  3. You can set the Accepted Warehouse for all items in this Purchase Receipt. This is fetched if set in Purchase Order.
                                                                                                                                                                  4. In case any Items are defective, set the Rejected Warehouse where those Items will be stored.
                                                                                                                                                                  5. Select the Item and enter the quantity in the Items table.
                                                                                                                                                                  6. The rate will be fetched and the amount will be calculated automatically.
                                                                                                                                                                  7. You can expand the item row to change the Accepted Warehouse for an Item.
                                                                                                                                                                  8. Save and submit.
 Purchase Receipt 
You can also add a 'Supplier Delivery Note' to the Purchase Receipt if your Supplier has added some notes. Using the 'Edit Posting Date and Time' checkbox you can edit the posting time and date of the Purchase Receipt. By default, the date and time are set when you click on the New button.
Is Return: Tick this checkbox if you're returning Items that were not accepted to your Warehouse.
2.1 Statuses 
These are the statuses a Purchase Receipt can be in:
                                                                                                                                                                     * Draft: A draft is saved but yet to be submitted to the system.
                                                                                                                                                                     * To Bill: Yet to be billed using a Purchase Invoice.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Completed: Submitted and received all the Items.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Return Issued: All the Items have been returned.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Cancelled: Cancelled the Purchase Receipt.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Closed: The purpose of the Close is to manage short-closing. For example, you ordered 20 qty, but closing at 15 qty. The remaining 5 is not to be received or billed.
3. Features 
3.1 Currency and Price List 
The currency of the Purchase Receipt is shown in this section, it is fetched from the Purchase Order. The item prices will be fetched from the set Price list. Ticking on Ignore Pricing Rule will ignore the Pricing Rules set in Accounts > Pricing Rule.
Since the incoming Item affects the value of your inventory, it is important to convert it into your base currency if you have ordered in another Currency. You will need to update the Currency Conversion Rate if applicable.
Read about Price Lists and Multi-Currency Transactions to know more.
3.2 Warehouse details 
The following Warehouses set will apply to all Items in the Items table of the Purchase Receipt. You can change the Warehouses for individual Items via the table.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Accepted Warehouse: This is the Warehouse in which you'll accept and store the incoming Items. Usually, this is the 'Stores' Warehouse.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Rejected Warehouse: This is the Warehouse in which you'll keep the rejected Items which were either defective or not up to the quality mark.
Subcontracting 
                                                                                                                                                                     * Raw Materials Consumed: In case you're subcontracting, select 'Yes' to consume the Raw Materials from the vendor. Read Subcontracting to know more.
3.3 Items table 
                                                                                                                                                                     * Barcode: You can track Items using barcodes.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Scan Barcode: You can add Items in the Items table by scanning their barcodes if you have a barcode scanner. Read documentation for tracking items using barcode to know more.
                                                                                                                                                                     * The Item Code, name, description, Image, and Manufacturer will be fetched from the Item master.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Received and Accepted: Set the received, accepted and rejected quantity. The UoM is fetched from the Item master. You will need to update the “UOM Conversion Factor” if your Purchase Order for an Item is in a different Unit of Measure (UOM) than what you stock (Stock UOM).
 Purchase Receipt Items table 
                                                                                                                                                                     * Rate: The Rate is fetched if set in the Price List and the total Amount is calculated.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Item Tax Template: You can set an Item Tax Template to apply a specific Tax amount to this particular Item. To know more, visit this page.
                                                                                                                                                                     * The Item Weight details per unit and Weight UOM are fetched if set in the Item master.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Warehouse and Reference: You can set the accepted and rejected Warehouses and also add a Quality Inspection, see next section.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Serial No, Batch No, and BOM: If your Item is serialized or batched, you will have to enter Serial Number and Batch in the Items table. You are allowed to enter multiple Serial Numbers in one row (each on a separate line) and you must enter the same number of Serial Numbers as the quantity.
There are separate fields for entering Serial Numbers of both accepted and rejected Items here. A Batch Number can also be set if you're storing a batch of plastic medicines for example.
Ticking on 'Allow Zero Valuation Rate' will allow submitting the Purchase Receipt even if the Valuation Rate of the Item is 0. This can be a sample item or due to a mutual understanding with your Supplier.
                                                                                                                                                                     * You can link a BOM here if the Item is being subcontracted. Linking the BOM here will affect the Stock ledger, i.e. the raw material stock will be deducted from the Supplier Warehouse.
Note: The Item has to be serialized or batched for these features to work. If the Item is serialized a popup will appear where you can enter the Serial Numbers.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Accounting Dimensions help to tag each transaction with different Dimensions without the need for creating new Cost Centers. You need to create Accounting Dimensions first, to know more, visit this page.
                                                                                                                                                                     * Page Break will create a page break just before this item when printing.
3.4 Tracking Quality Inspection 
If for certain Items, it is mandatory to record Quality Inspections (if you have set it in your Item master), you will need to update the “Quality Inspection" field. The system will only allow you to “Submit” the Purchase Receipt if you update the “Quality Inspection”.
After enabling Inspection Criteria in the Item form for Purchase and attaching a Quality Inspection Template there, Quality Inspections can be recorded in Purchase Receipts.
To know more, visit the Quality Inspection page.
 Quality Inspection 

3.5 Raw Materials Consumed 
                                                                                                                                                                        * The Consumed Items table contains the Raw Materials consumed by the Supplier in order to receive the Finished Item.
                                                                                                                                                                        * The Get Current Stock button will fetch the current stock of the Consumed Items from the Supplier Warehouse.  Purchase Receipt 
3.6 Taxes and Valuation 
The Taxes and Charges will be fetched from the Purchase Order.
Visit the Purchase Taxes and Charges Template page to know more about taxes.
The total taxes and charges will be displayed below the table.
To add taxes automatically via a Tax Category, visit this page.
Make sure to mark all your taxes in the Taxes and Charges table correctly for an accurate valuation.
Shipping Rule 
A Shipping Rule helps set the cost of shipping an Item. The cost will usually increase with the distance of shipping. To know more, visit the Shipping Rule page.
3.7 Additional Discount 
Any additional discounts to the whole order can be set in this section. Read Applying Discount for more details.
3.8 More Information 
The Status of the Purchase Receipt is shown here and at the top. The various statuses are: Draft, To Bill, Completed, Canceled, and Closed. This section also shows % Amount Billed, i.e. the percentage of amount for which Sales Invoices are created.
3.9 Printing Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your Purchase Receipt on your company's letterhead. Know more here.
'Group same items' will group the same items added multiple times in the items table. This can be seen when your print.
Print Headings 
Purchase Receipt headings can also be changed when printing the document. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
3.10 After Submitting 
A Stock Ledger Entry is created for each Item adding the Item in the Warehouse by the “Accepted Quantity” If you have rejections, a Stock Ledger Entry is made for each Rejection. The “Pending Quantity” is updated in the Purchase Order.
After submitting the Purchase Receipt, the following can be created:
                                                                                                                                                                           * Purchase Return
                                                                                                                                                                           * Stock Entry
                                                                                                                                                                           * Purchase Invoice
                                                                                                                                                                           * Retaining Sample Stock
 Purchase Receipt submit 

3.11 Returning a Purchase Order 
Once you've received a Purchase Order using a Purchase Receipt, you can create a return entry in case the Item needs to be returned to the Supplier. To know more, visit the Purchase Return page.
3.12 Skipping Purchase Receipt 
If you don't want to create a Purchase Receipt after a Purchase Order and directly want to create a Purchase Invoice, enable the feature for it in Buying Settings.
________________


Changing the value of Items post Purchase Receipt: 
Sometimes, certain expenses that add to the total of your purchased Items are known only after a while. Common example is, if you are importing the Items, you will come to know of Customs Duty, etc only when your “Clearing Agent” sends you a bill. If you want to attribute this cost to your purchased Items, you will have to use the Landed Cost Voucher. Why “Landed Cost”? Because it represents the charges that you paid when it landed in your possession.


Delivery Note 
A Delivery Note is made when a shipment is shipped from the company’s Warehouse to the customer.
A copy of the Delivery Note is usually sent with the transporter. The Delivery Note contains the list of Items that are sent in the shipment and updates the inventory. The Delivery Note is an optional step and a Sales Invoice can be created directly from a Sales Order.
To access the Delivery Note list, go to:
Home > Stock > Stock Transactions > Delivery Note
 Delivery Note flow 

1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Delivery Note, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                           * Sales Order
Note: From version-13 onwards we have introduced immutable ledger which changes the rules for cancellation of stock entries and posting backdated stock transactions in ERPNext. Learn more here.
2. How to create a Delivery Note 
The entry of the Delivery Note is very similar to a Purchase Receipt. It is usually created from a “Submitted” Sales Order (that is not shipped) by clicking on Create > Delivery.
To create a Delivery Note _manually_ (not recommended), follow these steps:
                                                                                                                                                                           1. Go to the Delivery Note list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                                           2. The Customer and Item details can be fetched by clicking on 'Get Items from > Sales Order'.
                                                                                                                                                                           3. The UOM and Rates will be fetched automatically.
                                                                                                                                                                           4. Save and Submit.
 Delivery Note 
To fetch Items from a Sales Order, click on Get Items from > Sales Order. This will open a popup from where you can search for Sales Orders and select one.
You will notice that all the information about unshipped Items and other details are carried over from your Sales Order if you create the Delivery Note from there.
You can also edit the posting date and time, the current date and time are set when you create the Delivery Note.
2.1 Statuses 
These are the statuses a Delivery Note can be in:
                                                                                                                                                                              * Draft: A draft is saved but yet to be submitted to the system.
                                                                                                                                                                              * To Bill: Yet to be billed using a Sales Invoice.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Completed: Submitted and sent all the Items.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Return Issued: All the Items have been returned.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Cancelled: Cancelled the Delivery Note.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Closed: The purpose of the Close is to manage short-closing. For example, your Customer ordered for 20 qty but closed at 15 qty. The remaining 5 is not to be sent or billed.
2.2 Partial Deliveries 
When you create a Delivery Note from a Sales Order, the quantities can be changed. So if the Sales Order contains 10 Items to be delivered and you're delivering only 5 this week and the remaining next week, then you can create 2 Delivery Notes in two weeks.
2.3 From Pick List 
You can create Delivery Notes in bulk, from Pick Lists also. From a submitted Pick List, click on Create -> Delivery Note.

This would create separate Delivery Notes for Sales Orders, grouped by Customer. If a Pick List Item is not linked to a Sales Order(added manually by user), a separate DN would be created for all those items as well.
3. Related Actions 
3.1 Customer Purchase Order Details 
You can enter the Customer's Purchase Order number here for Reference.
3.2 Address and Contact 
                                                                                                                                                                              * Shipping Address: The Customer's address where the Items will be shipped.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Person: If the Customer is an organization, add the Contact person in this field.
For India, the following details can be added for GST:
                                                                                                                                                                              * Customer GSTIN
                                                                                                                                                                              * Place of Supply
                                                                                                                                                                              * Billing Address GSTIN
                                                                                                                                                                              * Company GSTIN
                                                                                                                                                                              * Company Address Name
Contacts and Addresses are stored separately so that you can attach multiple Contacts or Addresses to the customer.
3.3 Currency and Price List 
You can set the currency in which the Deliver Note is to be sent. This is usually fetched if set in the Sales Order. If you set a Pricing List, then the item prices will be fetched from that list. Ticking on Ignore Pricing Rule will ignore the Pricing Rules set in Accounts > Pricing Rule.
Read about Price Lists and Multi-Currency Transactions to know more.
3.4 Warehouses 
                                                                                                                                                                              * Set Source Warehouse: This is where the Items will be sourced from to send to the Customer.
                                                                                                                                                                              * To Warehouse: In a regular Sales scenario, the Item exits your Warehouse and reaches the Customer. However, if you wish to retain sample stock, enter a Warehouse here.
3.5 Items Table 
                                                                                                                                                                              * Barcode: You can track Items using barcodes.
                                                                                                                                                                              * The Item Code, name, description, Image, and Manufacturer will be fetched from the Item master.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Scan Barcode: You can add Items in the Items table by scanning their barcodes if you have a barcode scanner. Read documentation for tracking items using barcode to know more.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Discount and Margin: You can apply a discount on individual Items percentage-wise or the total amount of the Item. Read Applying Discount for more details.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Rate: The Rate is fetched if set in the Price List and the total Amount is calculated.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Item Tax Template: You can set an Item Tax Template to apply a specific Tax amount to this particular Item. To know more, visit this page.
                                                                                                                                                                              * The Item Weight details per unit and Weight UOM are fetched if set in the Item master.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Warehouse and Reference: The Warehouse from which the Items are sent to the Customer is shown. Also, a Sales Order will be shown if this Delivery Note was the creation flow: 'Sales Order > Deliver Note'.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Batch No and Serial No: If your Item is serialized or batched, you will have to enter Serial Number and Batch in the Items table. You are allowed to enter multiple Serial Numbers in one row (each on a separate line) and you must enter the same number of Serial Numbers as the quantity.
The 'Available Qty at From Warehouse', 'Available Batch Qty at From Warehouse', and 'Installed Qty' will be shown. To know more about installation, visit the Installation Note page.
Note: The Item has to be serialized or batched for these features to work. If the Item is serialized a popup will appear where you can enter the Serial Numbers.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Expense Account is the account from which the amount will be debited. Ticking on 'Allow Zero Valuation Rate' will allow submitting the Delivery Note even if the Valuation Rate of the Item is 0. This can be a sample item or due to a mutual understanding with your Supplier.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Accounting Dimensions help to tag each transaction with different Dimensions without the need for creating new Cost Centers. You need to create Accounting Dimensions first, to know more, visit this page.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Page Break will create a page break just before this Item when printing.
3.6 Tracking Quality Inspection 
If for certain Items, it is mandatory to record Quality Inspections (if you have set it in your Item master), you will need to update the “Quality Inspection" field. The system will only allow you to “Submit” the Delivery Note if you update the “Quality Inspection”.
After enabling Inspection Criteria in the Item form for Sales and attaching a Quality Inspection Template there, Quality Inspections can be recorded in Delivery Notes.
3.7 Taxes and Charges 
The Taxes and Charges will be fetched from the Sales Order.
Visit the Sales Taxes and Charges Template page to know more about taxes.
The total taxes and charges will be displayed below the table.
To add taxes automatically via a Tax Category, visit this page.
Make sure to mark all your taxes in the Taxes and Charges table correctly for an accurate valuation.
Shipping Rule 
A Shipping Rule helps set the cost of shipping an Item. The cost will usually increase with the distance of shipping. To know more, visit the Shipping Rule page.
3.8 Additional Discount 
Any additional discounts to the whole order can be set in this section. This discount could be based on the Grand Total i.e., post tax/charges or Net total i.e., pre tax/charges. The additional discount can be applied as a percentage or an amount. Read Applying Discount for more details.
3.9 Terms and Conditions 
In Sales/Purchase transactions there might be certain Terms and Conditions based on which the Supplier provides goods or services to the Customer. You can apply the Terms and Conditions to transactions to transactions and they will appear when printing the document. To know about Terms and Conditions, click here
3.10 Transporter Information 
If you outsource transporting Items to their delivery location, the transporter details can be added. This is not the same as drop shipping.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Transporter: The Supplier who will transport the Item to your Customer. The transporter feature should be enabled in the Supplier master to select the Supplier here.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Driver: You can add a Driver here who will drive the mode of transport.
 Delivery Note Transport 

The following details can be recorded:
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Distance in km
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Mode of Transport whether road, air, rail, or ship.
For India, GST:
                                                                                                                                                                                 * GST Transporter ID
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Transport Receipt No
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Vehicle No The GST Vehicle Type can be changed
The Transport Receipt Date and Driver Name will be fetched.
3.11 More Information 
The Delivery Note can be linked to the following for tracking purposes:
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Project
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Campaign
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Source
3.11 Printing Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your Delivery Note on your company's letterhead. Know more here.
'Group same items' will group the same items added multiple times in the Items table. This can be seen when your print.
Print Headings 
Purchase Receipt headings can also be changed when printing the document. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
There are additional checkboxes for printing the Delivery Note without the amount, this might be useful when the Item is of high value. You can also group the same Items in one row when printing.
3.12 Status 
The status of the document and installation percentage is shown here. Any additional instructions for delivery can be entered here.
3.13 Commission 
If the sale took place via one of your Sales Partners, you can add their commission details here. This is usually fetched from the Sales Order.
3.14 Sales Team 
Sales Persons: ERPNext allows you to add multiple Sales Persons who may have worked on this deal.
This is usually fetched from a Sales Order, for example:
 Sales Team in Sales Order 

3.15 Shipping Packets or Items with Product Bundle 
If you are shipping Items that have a Product Bundle, ERPNext will automatically create a “Packing List” table for you based on the sub-Items in that Item.
If your Items are serialized, then for Product Bundle type of Items, you will have to update the Serial Number in the “Packing List” table.
3.16 Packing Items into Cases, for Container Shipment 
If you are doing making the delivery via container shipment or by weight, then you can use the Packing Slip to break up your Delivery Note into smaller units. To know more about a Packing Slip, visit this page. go to:
You can create multiple Packing Slips for your Delivery Note and ERPNext will ensure that the quantities in the Packing Slip do not exceed the quantities in the Delivery Note. Note that you can create a Packing Slip from a Delivery Note only when the Delivery Note is in the Draft stage.
3.17 After Submitting 
When the Delivery Note is submitted, a Stock Ledger Entry is made for each Item and stock is updated. Pending Quantity in the Sales Order is updated (if applicable).
The Dashboard will show the following options:
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Installation Note
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Sales Return
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Delivery Trip
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Sales Invoice
 Delivery Note after submit 

Tip: To disallow the creation of Delivery Notes without a Sales Order against it:
3.18 Returning a Sales Order 
Once you've delivered a Sales Order using a Delivery Note, you can create a return entry in case the Customer returns the Item. To know more, visit the Sales Return page.
3.19 Skipping Delivery Note 
If you don't want to create a Delivery Note after a Sales Order and directly want to create a Sales Invoice, enable the feature for it in Selling Settings.
Stock Entry 
A Stock Entry lets you record Item movement between Warehouses.
To access the Stock Entry list, go to:
Home > Stock > Stock Transactions > Stock Entry
Stock Entries can be made for the following purposes:
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Material Issue: If the material is being issued to someone in or outside the company (Outgoing Material). The Items will be deducted from the Warehouse set under Source Warehouse.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Material Receipt: If the material is being received (Incoming Material). The Items will be added to the Warehouse set under Target Warehouse.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Material Transfer: If the material is being moved from one internal Warehouse to another.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Material Transfer for Manufacturing: If raw materials are being transferred for manufacturing. The transfer can happen against a Work Order or a Job Card. To know more, visit the Bill Of Materials page.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Material Consumption for Manufacture: There can be multiple consumption stock entries against a manufacturing Work Order. Refer this link for more details
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Manufacture: If the Material is being received from a Manufacturing/Production Operation.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Repack: If the Original item/items are being repacked into new item/items.
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Send to Subcontractor: If the Material is being issued for a sub-contract activity. This entry is made from a Purchase Order. To know more, visit the subcontracting page.
To know more in detail about the stock entry types, visit this page.
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Stock Entry, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Warehouse
                                                                                                                                                                                 * Item
2. How to create a Stock Entry 
Stock Entries for Manufacturing purposes are usually created from a Work Order. To create a Stock Entry manually for other purposes, follow these steps:
                                                                                                                                                                                 1. Go to the Stock Entry list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                                                 2. Select the Stock Entry Purpose from the ones listed above.
                                                                                                                                                                                 3. If you set the Default Source or Target Warehouses, they'll be automatically filled for the rows in the Items table.
                                                                                                                                                                                 4. Source/Target Warehouses will be available as per the Stock Entry Purpose you selected.
                                                                                                                                                                                 5. Select Items and enter a quantity.
                                                                                                                                                                                 6. The basic rate will be fetched and the amount will be calculated automatically.
                                                                                                                                                                                 7. Save and Submit.
 Stock Entry 
Usually, "Source Warehouse" and "Target Warehouse" both are set for recording a movement.
2.1 Additional options when creating a Stock Entry 
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Work Order: If this is a Manufacturing entry, the Work Order will be shown in this field.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Edit Posting Date and Time: Will allow you to edit the Stock Entry's date and time.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inspection Required: If a Quality Inspection needs to be performed on the Items before submitting the Stock Entry.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * From BOM: If this is a Manufacturing entry, the associated BOM for the Item being manufactured will be shown.
2.2 Stock Entry Type 
You can also create a Stock Entry Type where only the name will be different, for example 'Scrap Entry'. The purpose will be Material Transfer but the name will be different. This is useful if you want certain Users to have access only to specific actions related to stock.
 Stock Entry Type 

3. Features 
3.1 The Items table 
Details about the Item, Rate, Quantity, etc. will be shown here.
Ticking on 'Allow Zero Valuation Rate' will allow submitting the Purchase Receipt even if the Valuation Rate of the Item is 0. This can be a sample item or due to a mutual understanding with your Supplier.
Different Source and Target Warehouses can be set for different Items.

3.2 Additional Costs 
If the stock entry is an incoming entry i.e any item is receiving at a target warehouse, you can add related additional costs (like Shipping Charges, Customs Duty, Operating Costs, etc) associated with the process. The additional costs will be considered to calculate the Valuation Rate of the items.
To add additional costs:
                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Select the Expense Account to which the expense from this Stock Entry will be recorded.
                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Enter the description and amount of the cost in the Additional Costs table.
 Stock Entry Additional Costs 

The added Additional Costs will be distributed among the receiving items (where the Target Warehouse mentioned) proportionately based on the Basic Amount of the items. And the distributed additional cost will be added to the basic rate of the item, to calculate Valuation Rate.
Quantity and Rate is shown as follows when you expand the Items table.  Stock Entry Item Valuation Rate 
3.3 Accounting Dimensions 
You can tag different transactions based on different dimensions. By default, Projects can be considered as a dimension as it is a common practice to track costs of different projects. To know more about Accounting Dimensions, visit this page.
3.4 Printing Settings 
Letterhead 
You can print your Purchase Receipt on your company's letterhead. Know more here.
Print Headings 
Purchase Receipt headings can also be changed when printing the document. You can do this by selecting a Print Heading. To create new Print Headings go to: Home > Settings > Printing > Print Heading. Know more here.
3.5 More Information 
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Is Opening: If this entry is the opening stock entry for the Items.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Remarks: Any additional remarks about the Item.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Percentage Transferred: The percentage of Items transferred depending on Stock Entry purpose.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Total Amount: The total amount of Items transferred.
3.6 Perpetual Inventory 
If the perpetual inventory system is enabled, additional costs will be booked in Expense Account mentioned in the Additional Costs table .
 Additional Costs General Ledger 
  Additional Costs General Ledger 
3.7 After Submitting 
After submitting a Stock Entry, you can go to the stock ledger or the accounting ledger from the dashboard.
 Additional Costs General Ledger 



Packing Slip 
A packing slip is a document that lists the items in a shipment.
It is usually attached to the goods delivered.
From a single Delivery Note, multiple Packing Slips can be created. It is useful when the shipment is packed in different boxes. Each box can have a weight and number of Items it contains. For example, if you're shipping 20 chairs in 4 boxes, each box can contain 5 chairs with different Packing Slips for each box.
To access the Packing Slip list, go to:
Home > Stock > Tools > Packing Slip
Note: In order to create Packing Slips from a Delivery Note, the Delivery Note needs to be in the Draft stage.
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Packing Slip, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Delivery Note
2. How to create a new Packing Slip 
Usually, you should create a Packing Slip from a Delivery Note when it is in the Draft stage, however, if you want to create a Packing Slip manually, follow these steps.
                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Go to the Packing Slip list, click on New.
                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Select the Delivery Note.
                                                                                                                                                                                    3. Enter the From Package No of this Packing Slip.
                                                                                                                                                                                    4. Click on the Get Items button to fetch the Items and Quantities into the Items table.
                                                                                                                                                                                    5. Save.
Most of these details will be fetched if you create the Packing Slip from the Delivery Note.
 Packing Slip 

1.1 Additional options when creating a Packing Slip 
To Package No: If there are multiple packages of the same type to be shipped at once then set the From and To Package numbers. For example, package numbers 1 to 5 in one Packing Slip, then package numbers 6 to 10 in the next Packing Slip and so on. This will be shown if you print then Packing Slip. Note that this will only work if you Shipment has that many quantities of the Items.
2. Features 
2.1 Items table 
                                                                                                                                                                                    * If this is a Batched Item, you'll have to select the Batch Number.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Quantity, UoM, Net Weight, and Weight UoM will be fetched from the Delivery Note.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Page Break will create a page break just before this item when printing.
2.2 Package weight details 
These details will be shown when printing the Packing Slip.
Net Weight: This is calculated as the sum of weights of all Items in the table. Gross Weight: This is the final total weight including the weight of the packing materials used. Gross Weight UOM: A UoM can be set here for the final weight of the product.
2.3 Letterhead 
You can print your Packing Slip on your company's letterhead. Know more here.


Shipment 
A Shipment is a document that keeps track of real-world Shipments created against a Delivery Note or independently.
Introduced in version 13
Shipments are particularly useful for shippers who want to track all their Shipment information such as AWB Number, Shipment Status, Carrier, etc. within ERPNext.
To access the Shipment list, go to:
Home > Stock > Stock Transactions > Shipment
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Shipment, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Company and Customer Address with Postal Code, Email Address and Phone Number set.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Customer Contact.
2. How to create a Shipment 
A Shipment can be created manually or from a Delivery Note:
2.1. Manual Shipment 
To create a Shipment manually, follow these steps:
                                                                                                                                                                                    1. Go to the Shipment list, click on New.
 Unsaved Shipment 
                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Select an option in the Pickup from field. On selecting one of the three options, you will be prompted to select a Company/Supplier/Customer based on your selection.
                                                                                                                                                                                    3. If you select 'Company' in the Pickup from field, along with the Address you must also select a Pickup Contact Person who will be a user from your organization, in ERPNext. Make sure the Last Name, Email Address and Phone Number are set for this user.
                                                                                                                                                                                    4. You can similarly fill the Delivery To section.
                                                                                                                                                                                    5. Add Shipment Parcel Information in the Shipment Parcel table.
                                                                                                                                                                                    6. Fill in the Value of Goods.
                                                                                                                                                                                    7. Select a Pickup Date.
                                                                                                                                                                                    8. Add a Description of Contents in this Shipment.
                                                                                                                                                                                    9. You can optionally fill the Shipment Information section if you are tracking Shipments manually.
                                                                                                                                                                                    10. Save and Submit.
 Submitted Shipment 
2.1. Shipment from Delivery Note 
To create a Shipment from a Delivery Note:
                                                                                                                                                                                       1. Click on Create > Shipment in the Delivery Note.
 Submitted Shipment 
                                                                                                                                                                                       2. Fill the form as mentioned in the previous section.
3. Features 
3.1. Shipment Parcel 
You can specify the length, width, height and, weight of a parcel in the Shipment. If there are multiple parcels with identical dimensions, the count field can be set accordingly.
To automatically fetch frequently used parcel dimensions, a Parcel Template can be created and set in the Parcel Template field. After adding the template, click on the Add template button.
 Submitted Shipment 

3.2. Shipment Information / Details 
The Shipment Information section is an optional section where a user can manually track Shipment information. Here are some of the fields:
                                                                                                                                                                                          1. Service Provider (optional): A Service Provider can be a third-party service that provides shipping services from various carriers.
                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Shipment ID: The unique Shipment ID on your Shipping platform.
                                                                                                                                                                                          3. Shipment Amount: Total cost incurred on Shipment
                                                                                                                                                                                          4. Carrier: The Carrier that handles your Shipment and delivers it.
                                                                                                                                                                                          5. Carrier Service (optional): The type/category of service provided by the carrier. E.g. some carriers have categories such as Economy, Express, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                          6. AWB Number: An air waybill (AWB) accompanies international air cargo. It usually has a unique AWB Number, that makes it easy to identify and track an air courier.
                                                                                                                                                                                          7. Incoterm: They are a set of internationally recognized rules which define the responsibilities of sellers and buyers. Know more about it here.
3.3 Automation 
You can also automate rate comparison, label generation, tracking, etc. using our Shipping Integration.
Retaining Sample Stock 
Sample stock is a batch of any Items stored for analyzing should the need arise later.
The Item for which sample stock is stored can be raw material, packaging material, or finished product.
1. Prerequisites 
Before using sample retention, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Item
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Batch
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Warehouse
1. How to Set Sample Retention Warehouse in Stock Settings 
It is advised to create a new Warehouse separately for retaining samples and not use it in production.
 Sample Retention Warehouse 

1.2 Enable Retain Sample in Item master 
Retain Sample is based on Batch hence Has Batch No should be enabled first. Check Retain Sample and set the Maximum allowed samples for a batch.
 Retain Sample 

1.3 Make Stock Entry 
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Whenever a Stock Entry is created with the purpose as Material Receipt, for items which have Retain Sample enabled, the Sample Quantity can be set during that Stock Entry. You need to select the Batch Number for the Item/Items. Sample quantity cannot be more than the Maximum sample quantity set in Item Master.
 Retain Sample 
                                                                                                                                                                                          * On submission of this Stock Entry, button 'Make Retention Stock Entry' will be available to make another Stock Entry for the transfer of sample items from the mentioned batch to the retention warehouse set in Stock Settings.
 Sample Retention Button 
                                                                                                                                                                                          * Clicking this button will direct you to new Stock Entry of type 'Material Transfer'. This entry is transfering your sample retention from your Target Warehouse (Stores) to the Sample Retention Warehouse. It will contain all the information, verify and click Submit.
 Retain Sample 
Pick List 
A Pick List is a document that indicates which items should be taken from your inventory to fulfill orders.
This is particularly useful for shippers with a large amount of inventory, volume of orders, or customers ordering many Stock Keeping Unit(SKU). Pick list selects Warehouse where an Item is available on FIFO (First-In-First-Out) basis. Selection of Warehouse for a batched item is different. In case of batched items, Warehouse where the batch is nearer to its expiry will be selected.
To access Pick List, go to:
Home > Stock > Stock Transactions > Pick List
1. Prerequisites 
Before creating and using a Pick List, it is advised that you create the following first:
                                                                                                                                                                                             * Stock Item
                                                                                                                                                                                             * Warehouse
2. How to create Pick List 
                                                                                                                                                                                             1. Go to the Pick List list, click on New.  Unsaved Pick List 
                                                                                                                                                                                             2. Set the Company.
                                                                                                                                                                                             3. Select the Purpose of Pick List. These are the options under Purpose:
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Delivery: This option will let you add Items from a Sales Order, to deliver. After submitting Pick List a new Delivery Note can be created based on the Warehouse from which items were picked.
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Material Transfer for Manufacture: This will let you select a Work Order from which raw materials will be pulled for picking. You will be presented with an option to select the number of finished goods for which you want to pick raw materials. After picking the stock you can create Stock Entry for the picked items i.e., raw materials.
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Material Transfer: This will let you select a Material Request for which you want to pick items. After picking the stock you can create a Stock Entry for the picked items.
                                                                                                                                                                                                4. Add Item and the quantity you want to pick in the Item Locations table. Click on Get Item Locations to get the Warehouse and other details for each Item.
                                                                                                                                                                                                5. Parent Warehouse: If a parent Warehouse is selected, Warehouses only under that parent Warehouse will be suggested.
                                                                                                                                                                                                6. Get Item Locations: Once items to be picked is finalized you can click on the Get Item Locations button to get Warehouse selection for each item. Since Warehouse will be automatically fetched if you get an Item from any reference document, this button can be useful to manually add additional Items or change the quantity of existing Items in the Item Locations table.
                                                                                                                                                                                                7. Item Locations: This will have the information of the item location (Warehouse), Serial Number for serialized items and batch no for batched items.  Item Locations 
If Serial Numbers are involved, the Item row will look like this:  Item Location Detail 
                                                                                                                                                                                                8. Save and Submit.  Submitted Pick List 
2.1 Create Pick List from a Sales Order 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1. Go to a Sales Order.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. Click on the Create button on the top right of the form and then click the Pick List option.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3. Once you click Pick List, all the data required for Pick List will be fetched from the Sales Order.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4. Alternatively, you can create a new Pick List and click on "Get Items". This would show a popup of all pending Sales Orders.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   1. You should be able to see the Item Locations Table with the Warehouse selected for each item.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. Save this document and it can be used for stock picking by the person performing this activity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3. Submit the document once the stock picking is done and picked item quantities are updated in the document.
Note:
                                                                                                                                                                                                   * Pick list can only be created for Sales Orders which has '% picked' < 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                   * A Delivery Note can be created only if the Pick List is submitted.
2.2 Create Pick List from a Work Order 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1. Go to a Work Order.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. Click Create Pick List button.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3. You'll see the dialog box asking for the quantity of Finished Goods Item. This is required to calculate the number of raw material items required to manufacture the entered quantity of Finished Goods Item.  Dialog For qty 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4. You should be able to see the Item locations table with the Warehouse selected for each raw material item.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5. Save this document and then this document can be forwarded to the person who is picking the stock.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6. Submit the document once the stock picking is done and the picked item is updated in the document accordingly.
Note:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pick list can only be created for Work Orders that are still in the state of 'Not Started' or 'In Progress'.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A Stock Entry can be created only after the Pick List is submitted.
2.3 Create Pick List from Material Request 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Go to a Material Request.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Click on Create button and then click Pick List option.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. You should be able to see the Item Locations table with the Warehouse selected for each item in Material Request.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Save this document and then this document can be forwarded to the person picking the stock.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Submit the document once the stock picking is done and the picked item is updated in the document accordingly.
Note:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Only Material Requests with type 'Material Transfer' can be used for Pick List creation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A Stock Entry of type 'Material Transfer' can be created after the Pick List is submitted.
3. Features 
3.1. Update Current Stock 
If a Pick List is outdated, there could be a shift in stock availability by the time a Delivery Note or Stock Entry is created against it. Clicking Update Current Stock will update the quantities and warehouses in the Item Locations table.
Note: This button is visible as long as there are no Delivery Notes or Stock Entries against the Pick List.
Stock Ledger Report 
A Stock Ledger Report is a detailed record that keeps track of stock movements for a company.
Inward or outward transactions related to Manufacturing, Purchasing, Selling, and Stock Transfers are recorded in the Stock Ledger which then is reflected in the Stock Ledger Report.
It reflects the quantity and value of stock issued, received, or transferred along with the stock item and its warehouse details.
It can be referred when the Perpetual Inventory system is enabled, as this report reflects the history of all your stock transactions. It presents a more granular view of the stock transactions.
Stock Ledger Report Attributes 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Incoming Rate: It reflects the actual value of the stock at which it was brought under your inventory. It reflects the same value as entered in the Rate field of the document.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Balance Value: It represents the total value of the remainder stock in the inventory. It is the product of Valuation Rate and Balance Quantity of a stock item.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Valuation Rate: It is calculated based upon the valuation method selected.
Here is how Stock Ledger Report represents a Stock Entry of type Material Receipt.
 Stock Ledger Report 

It reflects an item Chair of quantity 1000 units with Incoming Rate (Basic Rate) as Rs.3000 received in warehouse Stores - L along with calculating Valuation Rate and Balance Value.
You can click on Voucher # to open the document this transaction was created from.
Stock Ledgers are generated from the following transactions:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sales Invoice, Purchase Invoice (with Update Stock checked)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Delivery Note
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Purchase Receipt
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stock Entry
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Stock Reconciliation
                                                                                                                                                                                                      * We need to add Basic Rate to the Stock Ledger Account
You can add fields from the previously mentioned Document Types by clicking on Menu > Add Column.
Stock Level Report 
Stock Level report list stock item's quantity available in a particular warehouse.
There are multiple reports available you can check for item's stock level.
Stock Projected Quantity Report 
You can access this report from Stock > Main Report > Stock Projected Quantity
This report list item wise - warehouse wise stock level of an item considering all the stock transactions. With Actual Quantity of an item, it also provide other details like:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Actual Qty: Quantity available in the warehouse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Planned Qty: Quantity, for which, Work Order has been raised, but is pending to be manufactured.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Requested Qty: Quantity requested for purchase, but not ordered.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Ordered Qty: Quantity ordered for purchase, but not received.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Reserved Qty: Quantity ordered for sale, but not delivered.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Project Qty: Project Quantity is calculated as
Projected Qty = Actual Qty + Planned Qty + Requested Qty + Ordered Qty - Reserved Qty
The projected inventory is used by the planning system to monitor the reorder point and to determine the reorder quantity. The projected Quantity is used by the planning engine to monitor the safety stock levels. These levels are maintained to serve unexpected demands.
Having a tight control of the projected inventory is crucial to determine shortages and to calculate the right order quantity.
Stock Value and Account Value Comparison Report 
This report helps the user to understand the difference value between the stock account and stock balance report. At the end of the financial year, every organization has to match its closing stock balance with the closing stock account. Sometimes they do not match due to some issues. In that case, users can view the "Stock Value and Account Value Comparison" report to understand the incorrect transactions. Then, users can make adjustments entries accordingly.
To view the report, go to:
Home > Stock > Other Reports > Stock and Account Value Comparison
 Stock Report 

Closing Stock Balance 
How the Stock Balance Report is Prepared 
The Stock Balance report is a crucial tool for businesses to monitor their inventory levels and make informed decisions. It consists of four main columns: Opening Stock, In Stock, Out Stock, and Balance Stock. The Balance Stock is calculated using the formula Opening Stock + In Stock - Out Stock.
One of the key challenges in preparing the Stock Balance report is the calculation of the Opening Stock. To determine the Opening Stock, the system reads all the rows in the Stock Ledger Entry table that come before the specified From Date filter. However, a potential issue arises when the filter for item code or warehouse is not set, and the Stock Ledger Entry table contains a vast number of records. This situation can significantly slow down the process and cause performance problems.
Closing Stock Balance 
  

To address this issue, a solution has been introduced - the "Closing Stock Balance" feature. This feature allows the system to prepare the Opening Stock in advance, reducing the time taken to generate the Stock Balance report.
Here's how to use the "Closing Stock Balance" feature effectively:
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Closing Stock Balance Creation: After the financial year has ended, and the necessary audits have been completed for that year (in this example, the financial year 2022-2023), you should create the Closing Stock Balance. This should be done for the specific end date of the financial year 2022-2023.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Data Preparation: Once the Closing Stock Balance is submitted, the system will take some time to prepare the data. During this process, the Opening Stock values are calculated and stored for future use.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Utilizing Closing Stock Balance: With the Closing Stock data prepared, the system will utilize this data to generate the Stock Balance report efficiently. Now, whenever a user opens the Stock Balance Report, the system can quickly read the necessary data from the Closing Stock Balance for the Opening Stock values.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Annual Closing Stock Balance: It is essential to create the closing stock balance every year after the closing of the financial year. This ensures that the Opening Stock values are updated and accurate for each reporting period.
By implementing the "Closing Stock Balance" feature and following the recommended steps, businesses can significantly improve the performance and efficiency of generating Stock Balance reports, even with a vast amount of data in the Stock Ledger Entry table
Delivery Note Negative Stock Error 
Question: When submitting a Delivery Note, receiving a message says that item's stock is insufficient, but we have item's stock available in the Warehouse.
Answer: On submission of Delivery Note, stock level is checked as on Posting Date and Posting Time of a Delivery Note. It's possible that you have stock of an Item available in the Warehouse. But if you are creating back-dated Delivery Note, and if item was not available in the warehouse on the Posting Date and Posting Time of Delivery Note, you are likely to receive an error message on the negative stock. You can refer to the Stock Ledger report to confirm the same.
If this is the case, you should edit the Posting Date and Time of a Delivery Note, and ensure that it is after the Posting Date and Time of item's receipt entry.
Stock Balance and Stock Account Balance Syncing 
Question: When creating a transaction, getting validation message as follows. What is the cause of this error and how to resolve it.
  
Answer: Since Perpetual inventory is enabled in the your Company master, it requires the syncing of Stock Ledger and Stock Accounts (ledger) balance. The error message indicates that there is a mis-match in the stock and accounts balance due to previous entries
To proceed forward, you can easily sync the stock balance and stock accounts balance by creating a Journal Entry. Click on “Create a Journal Entry Button“ in the validation message, update relevant accounts and submit Journal Entry.
  
Custom Field 
Every form in ERPNext has a standard set of fields. If you need to capture some information, but there is no standard Field available for it, you can insert Custom Field in a form as per your requirement.
You can go to Customize Form and add the Field in a particular Form or a Document type _(hereafter referred to as DocType)_ .
To access Custom Field, go to:
Home > Customization > Form Customization > Custom Field
You can also go to the list view of any DocType and select Customize from the Menu options.
 Customize Option in List View 

1. How to create a Custom Field 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Go to the Custom Field list and click on New.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Document: Select the Document in which you need to add the Custom Field.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Label: Enter what Label would you like to give to your Custom Field.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Field Type: ERPNext already has a set of Field Types defined which can be fetched from this drop-down menu. You can select the Type of your Custom Field from within this menu.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Update.
 New Custom Field 

Learn more about Field types here.
You can also go to Customize Form and add, edit or remove a Field in a particular Form.
 Add Custom Field From Customize Form 

1.1. Additional Details 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Options: This Field comes into picture when you would want your data to be specific or specify the data. E.g., when you have selected the Field to be a 'Select Field', you would be required to enter the selection options here.
 Custom Field with Fieldtype as Select 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Fetch From: When you want your Custom Field to be 'Link Field', you would be required to specify the Form to which this Field is to be linked. E.g., you want to create a Custom Field 'Project' in the DocType 'Item'. You would be required to enter to specify your Field Type as 'Link' and enter 'Project' in the Fetch From Field to ensure that the Field is updated with the list of all the required DocTypes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Fetch If Empty: This check-box will ensure that this Field will be not overwritten based on Fetch From if a value already exists.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Default Value: Enter the default value of the Field which you would want to be fetched for this Field.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Depends On: You can define a condition here for the Field to be displayed. E.g., in the DocType Item, two fields 'Asset Category' and 'Asset Naming Series' will only appear if the Field 'Is Fixed Asset' is checked. The dependency condition here would be is_fixed_asset.
 Depends On Option 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. Field Description: You can add the description of the Field here which can be displayed below this Field.
 Custom Field Description 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      7. Permission Level: This will allow you to specify which roles within your organization will be able to edit this Field. You can go through Role Based Permissions for more understanding on this.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      8. In Preview: If Show Preview Popup for the document type is checked, the Field will be included in the popup that appears on hovering over links of the document type (in list view and other link fields).
                                                                                                                                                                                                      9. Width: This will define the width allocated to this Field while viewing the Form in a Grid View.
1.2. More Properties 
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Is Mandatory Field: This box can be checked if you want to make this Field mandatory while submitting a DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Unique: Check this box when you want the value of this Field to be unique. This can be done in cases where the Custom Field is for a code or an Identification Number. E.g., Item Code in case of Item, GST Number in case of Customer.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Read Only: When you want this Field to be a read only or a non-editable Field. In this case, the value of the Field shall be auto-fetched from other fields.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Hidden: Check this Field when you want this Field to be hidden, or to hide an existing Field.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Print Hide: In cases that you want the print button to be hidden from the Print Format. Checkout Fields in Print Format for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * No Copy: Checking this box will restrict copying of this Field in the DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Allow on Submit: This will allow you to make changes to the Field even after you have submitted the Form. Checkout Editing Value in Submitted Document for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * In List View: This will make the field visible in the List View of the DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * In Standard Filter: The field will become a standard filter in the List view of the Document.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * In Global Search: When this box is checked this Field can be searched form the Global Search.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Bold: This will make this Field type bold, this adds more value to the Field.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Report Hide: This field will not be visible in the reports when you check this box.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Ignore XSS Filter: This will allow you to view this Field without the HTML tags.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Translatable: When this box is checked, it becomes translatable while applying Custom Translations to this.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Customize Form 
Customize Form is a tool which enables you to make changes to a Form Type or a Document Type (DocType) on the front-end.
It allows you to insert Custom Fields as per your requirement or customize the properties of standard fields.
Before we venture to learn the Form Customization tool, click here to understand the architecture of forms in ERPNext. It will help you in using the Customize Form tool more efficiently.
To access Customize Form, go to:
Home > Customization > Form Customization > Customize Form
You can also go to the list view of any DocType and select Customize from the Menu options.
 Customize Option in List View 

1. How to Customize a Form 
                                                                                                                                                                                                         1. Click on Customize Form.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2. You will be redirected to a page wherein you will be asked to Enter Form Type.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         3. Once you enter the Form Type in this field, the page further expands and you will be able to see multiple features.
 Select DocType in Customize Form 
1.1. Options While Customizing a Form 
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1. Change Label: This field gets fetched via Custom Translation. You can change the name of the field to suit your industry/language. E.g., if you are a services business and you want to change the Label from 'Customer' to 'Consumer', the same can be done via Custom Translation and the same shall be reflected here.
 Change Label 
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2. Title Field: This field can be used to generate the title while viewing the lists. Any "Data" type field can be set as the Title Field while viewing the forms in the list view. E.g., if you wish to view the list of all your employees with the Title field as the 'Employee Code' instead of Employee Name, the same can be configured here. Check our article on Document title for more information.
Learn more about field types here.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            3. Default Print Format: For a single DocType, there could be multiple Print Formats. Here you can select the default Print Format for the selected DocType. For e.g., a company may have different Letter Heads for different purposes which can be configured through Print Formats. However, you can select two different Default Print Formats for a Sales Order and an Appointment Letter. Check Custom Print Formats for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. Image Field: You can select an "Attach Image" Field for your Image Field. This becomes the Image representing that particular DocType. E.g., the 'Image Field' for an Employee could be their photograph or a snapshot of their ID cards; the same can be configured here.
 Image Field in DocType 
                                                                                                                                                                                                            5. Max Attachments: You can enter the maximum number of attachments that could be added to this DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6. Search Fields: While creating any DocType, you may want to link a particular field to another DocType. For ease in selection, you can also ensure that you are able to see the value of another field of the latter DocType in the search result. For more information click here.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            7. Sort Field: Records in any DocType List are generated based on the Field that you set at the Sort Field over here. E.g., for Items, if you want your list to be generated as per Item Name, you can configure the same here.
 Sort Field 
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8. Sort Order: You can select whether you want the Sorting to be done in Ascending Order or Descending Order. To get more understanding on Sort Field and Sort Order, check out Customizing Sorting Order in the List View.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            9. Default Email Template: For a single DocType, there could be multiple Email Templates. Here you can set the default Email Template for the selected DocType. For example, you can set a different Default Email Template for a Sales Order and an Appointment Letter.
1.3. More Properties 
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Hide Copy: This box, when checked, restricts a User to create a 'Copy' of a particular Form.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Is Table: This option is available only while customizing the Forms which are present in table forms in the system. For e.g., if you are creating an Item Table to be added into a Custom Form, you can enable this option. Check out Child Table for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Quick Entry: Checking this box will allow you to create a 'Quick Entry' using a particular form. This means that whenever a user is creating this Form from another existing Form, a box will Pop Up which will allow the user to create the DocType by entering only the basic details. For example, check Quick Entry in Journal Entry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Track Changes: Checking this box will ensure that any changes made by any of the users to this DocType will be tracked and displayed.
 Track Changes 
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Track Views: This option will give you a trail of all the views towards this particular DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Allow Auto-Repeat: This option, if checked, will allow you to enable Auto Repetition of a DocType periodically. E.g., if there is a Sales Order which has to be made multiple number of times, you can enable this option and then Set Up Auto Repeat for any particular Sales Order.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Allow Import: This option will allow the user to Import data from any files. Check out Data Import Tool for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               * Show Preview Popup: This option was introduced in Version 12. If checked, a small popup will appear on hover of links of this document type (in list view and other link fields). This popup will contain the mandatory fields of the document and the fields for which in_preview is checked. Check out Link Preview for more information.
Once you click Update, your Customizations will be updated to the Form.
1.2. Customizing the Fields 
Every form in ERPNext has a standard set of fields. If you need to capture some information, but there is no standard field available for it, you can insert Custom Field in a form as per your requirement. Adding, editing or deleting of Fields can also be done here. You can also place the fields as per your requirement in the form by adding it below or above any other already present fields. Click here for more information on Custom Fields.
Document Title 
You can customize the title of documents based on properties so that you have meaningful information for the list views.
For example, the default title on a Quotation is the customer name, but if you are dealing with only a few customers and sending lots of quotations to each customer, you may want to customize.
 Document Title 

Setting Title Fields 
From ERPNext Version 6.0 onwards, all transactions have a 'Title' property. If there is not a title property, you can add a Custom Field as title and set the Title Field via Customize Form.
You can set the default value of that property by using Python style string formatting in Default or Options
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. To edit a default title, go to Customize Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Select the Form for which you would like to change the Title Field.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Edit the Title Field in the form.
Defining Titles 
You can define the title by setting document properties in braces {}. For example, if your document has fields customer_name, you can specify that as the Title of the Form.
 Set Document Title 

Alternatively, you can also define a particular field as the 'Title Field' in Customize Form.
 Title Field 

Fixed or Editable Titles 
If your title is generated as a default title, it can be edited by the user by clicking on the heading of the document.
 Editable Title 

If you want a fixed title, you can set the rule in the Options property. In this way, the title will be automatically updated every time the document is updated.
DocType 
A DocType is the core building block of any application based on the Frappe Framework.
It describes the Model and the View of your data. It contains what fields are stored for your data, and how they behave with each other. It contains information about how your data is named. The forms like Sales Order, Sales Invoices, Work Order are added as DocTypes in the backend.
DocType allows you to insert custom forms in ERPNext as per your requirement.
To create a new DocType, go to:
Setup > Customize > Doctype > New
1. How to create a New DocType: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Name: Enter the name of the new DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Module: Enter which module would you like the new DocType to be added to.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Save.
 Custom DocType 

1.1. Additional Details 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Fields
You can choose to add as many fields as you want. The Label, Field Type, Mandatory Fields and other associated Options can also be added here. Learn more about field types here.
 Fields in Custom DocType 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Naming
Here you can choose if you would want each of your forms within this DocType to be named automatically. As given in the description, you can select the pattern for naming of the forms. The same can be a Field within the DocType, Naming Series, Prompt, A defined Naming Series, or a Format based Name. For Naming, you can also add a Description and the Name Case (as a Title Case or UPPER CASE)for your convenience.
 Naming Custom DocType 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Form Settings
Additional Settings for the Form, Image Fields, Attachments, Timeline etc. can be configured here. To know more about Form, visit Customize Form.
 Custom DocType Form Settings 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. View Settings
Here, you can define the View settings for the DocType, like, Search Fields, Default Sort Field, Default Sort Order etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Permission Rules
You can define the Permission Rules for the DocType here, and configure which users would be able to use or make changes to this DocType. Learn more about Users and Permissions here.
 Custom DocType Permissions 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Web View
You can select whether you would want a Web View of this DocType or no. Having a Web View for a DocType will allow your website users to have access to the Forms. Feel free to learn more about Website Users.
1.2. More Properties 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Is Submittable: You can select if you want this DocType to only be 'Saved' or to also be 'Submitted' by checking and un-checking this box.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Is Child Table: You can define if you want the New DocType to be a Child Table within another DocType. Checkout Child Table for more information.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3. Is Single: If checked, this Doctype will become a single form, like Sales Order, which user will not be able to re-produce. For e.g., Selling Settings in Sales Module is a Single DocType.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4. Is Tree: A few DocTypes in ERPNext are structured as Trees, wherein there are some Parent DocTypes and some Children DocTypes. E.g., Doctype Company is structured as Tree, there are Parent Companies as well as Child Companies, which we call subsidiaries. If you want your DocTypes to be structured similarly, you can enable this option.
 DocType Tree View 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5. Quick Entry: You can select if you want a Quick Entry to be made for this DocType. This will allow you to enter only a few mandatory details and save the DocType, so that a Quick Entry is made. For example, check Quick Entry in Journal Entry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6. Track Changes: You can select this option if you want to maintain a log of the changes made to each Form. Check Out Document Versioning for more understanding on this.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7. Track Seen: You can select this option if you want to maintain a log of all the Users who have seen this Form.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8. Track Views: You can select this option if you want to maintain a log of all the times each User has Viewed this Form.
 DocType Tree View 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9. Custom?: This field will be checked by default when adding Custom Doctype. Similarly, if you are customizing a DocType which already exists in the system, this field by default would be unchecked.